# Build Core Classes

## Goals

I need some core classes to support my domain driven design direction.

Looking at several DDD examples, I'll start with classes for:

-  Entity
-  Result

Looking at other people's examples, I see many different organization strategies. I'll put all these classes in `src/ddd` for now. I can reorganize them later if that makes sense.

## Entity

DDD's domain model includes the concepts of Value Objects and Entities.

A DDD value object represents a data value type and any business rules (validation logic) for the type. For example, an email value object might have rules about the basic format of the email address (email box, @, domain name), might reject certain domain names, etc. I'll take a simpler approach to get the project off the ground and consider defining a class for value objects when I know more. A value object is similar to an attribute, in entity-relationship data modeling terms.

An entity differs from a value object by having a unique identifier. This makes an entity simlar to an ER data modeling entity. So, what do we need to be able to do with an entity, remembering that the domain model is the core of the application and doesn't know about HTTP, databases, or anything else outside the domain model?

-  Attributes (properties) that describe the specific entity instance. These are often value objects, but may be primitive types.
-  A unique identifier.
-  An equals method to compare it to another entity.

I'll use a UUID because it avoids calling a database to get an id (performance, domain model boundaries, etc.), so I'll use the `uuid` module and it's types.

```s
npm i uuid
npm i -D @types/uuid
```

I'll based my Entity on [Stemmler's entity class](https://github.com/stemmlerjs/ddd-forum/blob/master/src/shared/domain/Entity.ts), which seems similar to several others I saw.

See `src/ddd/Entity.ts` for code.

## Result

Result is a special value object that represents the outcome of an operation.

Result lets entities return a successful or failed result with a value or error (string or object) for easier result handling.

I'm basing on [Stemmler's Result class] (https://github.com/stemmlerjs/ddd-forum/blob/master/src/shared/core/Result.ts).

See `src/ddd/Result.ts` for code.

## Summary of new dependencies

-  `uuid` -- generates UUIDs for entity ids
-  `@types/uuid` -- types for `uuid`

**COMMIT: 2.1.0 - create Entity and Result**

## Reorganize

After a little more thinking, I've decided to reorganize `src/ddd` around the basic architecture layers each object supports.

Reading [Andre Bazaglia's article](https://bazaglia.com/clean-architecture-with-typescript-ddd-onion/) helped think about how this all fits. Also, I say, "domain driven design," but I'm also considering clean/onion/hexagonal/ports-and-adapters architecture patterns, which are compatible. See also [Stemmler's comparison of DDD and clean architecture](https://khalilstemmler.com/articles/software-design-architecture/domain-driven-design-vs-clean-architecture/)--it doesn't cover everything, but it is a starting point.

My use of terms below doesn't completely align with either Bazagila or Stemmler, but it does align better with the architecture model.

At a basic level I'll have:

-  `domain` - core business logic - what is the data and how does it behave (rules, data quality, etc.)
   -  Entity
   -  Aggregate (Aggregate Root) - a collection of objects treated as a unit for data changes; basically, an Entity made of Entities and Value Objects
   -  Value Object - including Result, other special value objects
   -  Domain Event
   -  Domain Service - domain logic thats span Entities/Aggregates
-  `application` - features/capabilities the application delivers - what is the process we do for a given action
   -  Use Case - commands or queries (actions, name with verbs) that provide a feature of the application
-  `adapter` - connects the application use cases to the infrastructure (databases, http, queues, etc.)
   -  Controller - how to perform actions for a given infrastructure input path - uses use cases
   -  Repository - how to perform actions for a given persistence/storage path (get, update, etc) - used by use cases (injected)
   -  Mapper - translates DTOs to/from infrastructure, repository, domain
   -  Router - maps specific input paths from input infrastructure to the appropriate controller - may be a framework's router object (http, etc.)
-  `infrastruture` - connects adapters to technology specific frameworks - I expect to have little or nothing in `ddd` for this
   -  A Router to an http framework (express, hapi, nest.js, etc.)
   -  A Repository to a specific database interface (MySQL, PostgreSQL, etc.), ORM (sequelize, TypeORM, etc.), or other storage technology (queue, file, etc.)
   -  A Repository to a data service (the UI service that provides archive process data)

So, I'm creating a `domain` directory under `src/ddd` and moving `Entity.ts` and `Result.ts` into it. I'll create other directories and objects as I need them.

**COMMIT: 2.1.1 - reorganize**

## Next steps

-  Begin the Archive Request entity--properties, private constructor, create, others TBD.
-  Begin the Archive Process entity--properties, private constructor, create, others TBD.
-  Build repos for both entities.
-  Build use cases for both entities.
-  Build controller to receive requests.
-  Wire into an Express API.
