# Get check request allowed use case working

## Planning and testing notes

This use case needs a backupRequest. It is separate from the create request use case because we need to handle allowed checks differently for HTTP vs. queue transports. Also, the startup recovery process will look for any requested but not checked backup requests and check them.

The plan is:

-  HTTP controller will call the use case directly and wait for a response so it can reply with a 400 if not allowed. Timeout = 408.
-  Queue controller will call the use case directly but doesn't care about the response. (May do an await-less call?)
-  Startup recovery will get backup request, add the domain event for the use case and trigger event processing. (Need to think about how this works. May make more sense for queue to do this too.)
-  Use case will update the backup request's status, checked timestamp, and other data it gets that the backup request needs filled in. If allowed, it will trigger an event that runs the send to interface use case.

I don't need an actual repo yet because the use case will always get data from the main create backup controller, which gets it from the create request use case or from a startup recovery process that has a list of backup requests from the repo.

While this is the second step in the process, I'm writing it third because it depends on the send to interface use case.

## First steps

[x] Start request backup use case in `create-backup/use-cases/check-request-allowed`
[x] Create a DTO in the same place.
[x] Create backup job aggregate.
[x] Create backup job adapter interface.
[x] Create backup job adapter factory (for tests).
[x] Write test for use case -- when executed, the result isRight() (write use case to fail).
[x] Confirm test fails.
[x] Change use case to return a right() and test passes.

What data do we need about the backup job?

-  Backup Job Id
-  Backup storage path name
-  Backup provider code
-  Days to keep or a code we can translate to that based on a table
   We'll go with that for now and add to it later if needed.

**COMMIT: 3.1.4.1 - build use case and first test**

[x] test: when backup request id is not found, fails
[x] test: when backup job is not found, fails
[x] test: when backup request is not in received status, fails with 'not in received status' message
[x] test: when backup request is already checked (Allowed, NotAllowed), succeeds with no changes to the request
[x] test: when backup request is already sent to interface (Sent), succeeds with no changes to the request
[x] test: when backup request is already replied (Succeeded, Failed), succeeds with no changes to the request

I can test the last case because `BackupRequest` does not check the status value it gets. If it did, this would be untestable--and maybe impossible. The system should never produce this case because values for status are a defined set and must be one of the value.

In the process of building these tests, I earned about jest's `test.each()`, which let me write five tests for each "past received" status with a list of input values and the same test code. Cool stuff. I had to apply some type hints/coercion to convince (strict) TypeScript to let me index an object by a string and then treat the object as the right type, but otherwise is pretty straightforward. Jest docs on the topic are a little difficult to make sense of. I think the best approach is to use the array of objects and use member names (more readable than array of arrays, easier than building a table in a template string).

**COMMIT: 3.1.4.2 - build remaining test cases**

This use case needs:

-  An event subscriber to trigger it when a backup request is created
-  To add a domain event to which send to interface will subscribe to trigger it

[x] copy `BackupRequestCreatedSubscriber` to check allowed use case; change to execute check allowed use case
[x] add `BackupRequestAllowed` event in `backup-request/domain` (same class with different name ??? )
[x] change `setStatusChecked()` on `BackupRequest` to add `BackupRequestAllowed` event (will trigger on save)
[x] rename `BackupRequestCreatedSubscriber` in send use case to `BackupRequestAllowedSubscriber`; change to subscribe to `BackupRequestAllowed` event

I don't think this directly affects any tests.
I should be able to see event created log messages for the two events in all success cases.
[x] I can see the events being created in the one test that sets status to allowed

If I add a sent to interface event, I may be able to see evidence that everything is firing.
Or just create the subscriptions in the test and remove after.

[x] added `test-utils/testEvents.spec.ts` to test events run; set `TEST_EVENTS = true` to run tests or `false` to skip event tests and pass

**COMMIT 3.1.4.3 - add/move/change events and subscribers (created, allowed)**
