# Queue adapter that handles sending BackupRequests

## From 8.0 notes

8.2 - Backup Request queue adapter

-  Uses send function that is passed to it (constructor) maybe
-  Understand how send affects testability

-  `mapToQueue(backupRequest)` assembles data for the queue
-  `sendMessage(backupRequest)` calls `mapToQueue` to get a raw object for the queue, then calls the low level queue code

Look at the Azure Queue code you have and get a sense of what will be happening there.

A couple of reference links
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/javascript/api/@azure/storage-queue/queuesendmessageresponse?view=azure-node-latest
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/javascript/api/@azure/storage-queue/messagesenqueueheaders?view=azure-node-latest

## Plan

I need a mapper function (private) and a `sendMessage` (in the interface).

-  `sendMessage` needs a `BackupRequest` and the name of the queue (always the same).
-  Map the request to a raw object to send to the queue. `JSON.stringify()` because we need a string.
-  Call AQ.sendMessage() and handle the response.
   -  For now, on err, log it and return err
   -  After I have the basic thing working and talking to Azurite, I'll build a circuit breaker and add it to the adapter to manage recovering from failures
-  `sendMessage` will return the object below on ok

```typescript
export interface SendMessageResponse {
	isSent: boolean;
	responseStatus: number;
	sendStart: Date;
	sendEnd: Date;
	insertedOn?: Date;
	messageId?: string;
	sendRequestId?: string;
}
```

## Fix everything that relied on the interface when it returned boolean

-  Easy way to find: Rename the file, let the affected files open, rename the file back to what it was
-  Update the mock adapter to set up the right response
-  Write the map function
-  Write the send function

I want to test this by running with Azurite first to see it works in the real world

-  Setup `dev.env` for Azurite
-  Add queue `allowed-backup-requests`
-  Set up `initBackupRequestModule` to use `Azure` instead of `Mock` adapter
-  Postgres is giving me issues. Apparently docker is getting a different database than I expect (one from AuthZ work).
   NEXT: figure out why docker is getting the wrong db volume; maybe I wiped the volume or something
   -  Added a volume line to `dev.yml` to use a persistent volume
   -  Also had to `docker-compose ... down` to get it to recognize the volume
   -  Now I have a `docker-compose/postgres.db/data` directory that it's using (and that's covered by the `*.db` in `.gitignore`)
   -  Get the db setup script from prisma and run it
-              Let's get a token and send a request
   -  Parameters to sendMessage were reversed, but puttting them in the right order seems to work
   -  Need to read the queue and, unfortunately, the Azure Storage plugin won't do that
   -  Write a Q&D reader (`src/utils/readLocalQueue.ts`) -- does not delete messages from the queue
-  I see a message in the queue, but I see I didn't include `backupRequestId`, so add that to the mapper
-  Now I see two messages and the second one has the id that matches the request id the POST got back--and the rest of the data
-  This seems to be working!

## Let's write tests

Write unit tests by replacing the mock adapter in the use case's tests and mocking the SDK's `QueueClient.sendMessage` as I did before.

This change was simple. Done. Tests that would actually call the queue.

I got tired of all the logging in tests, so set the logger to only log fatal if testing (see `isTest()` in `utils` for how to detect testing). Now I can run all tests without a mess of logs on screen.

**COMMIT: FEAT: add Azure queue adapter**

## Base64 option

I may need to Base64 the message before putting in the queue. Add an option.

Make all the parameters to `AzureQueue.sendMessage` an object to avoid order issues.

-  Change tests and adapter to pass parms as object
-  Change mocks of `qc.sendMessage` to implementations; accept a message and include it in the `_response.bodyAsText` member of the result
-  Add `toBase64()` and `fromBase64()` in `utils` to make encode/decode easier in tests
-  In the adapter, `useBase64` is set in the constructor
   -  Create different instances of the adapter for different cases
   -  This makes sense because queueName is a parameter to the constructor; messages to/from a queue should be consistent
-  Get tests to pass

**COMMIT: FEAT: add option to convert message to Base64 (required in some Azure contexts)**
