# Build the receive feature

I've laid out the whole plan here and will fill in details as I go. I reserve the right to move things around, but I wanted to think through a flow that should lead to tests naturally leading to code with little overlap or rework.

## Add receive function to AzureQueue

What does it do?

-  Get a queue client
   -  Needs queueName, useBase64, credentials
-  Receive one message
-  On error, return err
-  On ok, return ok with `ReceivedMessageItem[]`
   -  I'm willing to allow the poller to read several messages at once and send events for them because the event subscriber is responsible for deletes

How can it succeed? How can it fail?

-  Through the call to getQueueClient, it's basically the same as send
   -  Can I reuse that code so I don't need to retest it
   -  Message count parameter defaults to 1
-  `try` will get message items on success
   -  Important options: `numberOfMessages`, `timeout`, `visibilityTimeout` (seconds, may want >30 just in case)
   -  QueueReceiveMessageResponse { receivedMessageItems: ReceivedMessageItem[], errorCode, requestId, version }
   -  ReceivedMessageItem { **dequeueCount**, expiresOn, insertedOn, **messageId**, **messageText**, nextVisibleOn, **popReceipt** }
   -  `catch` is the same, I think
-  So, if I can pull all the setup into a function, I don't need to test it again, can focus on tests specific to receive

-  [x] Move setup into a function and confirm it still passes tests
   -  `initMethod(params)`; returns a `Result` with an object (destructure) or errors
   -  `sendMessage()` passes tests, so we're good

Tests and code

-  [x] queueClient throws -> SDKError
-  [x] queueClient rejects -> SDKError
-  [x] queueClient resolves < 300, Base64 -> ok, message matches
-  [x] queueClient resolves < 300, not Base64 -> ok, message matches
-  [x] queueClient resolves < 300, no messages -> ok, 0 messages

I don't think queueClient can resolve with status > 299. Tests show it throws/rejects. It can succeed with 0 messages.

**COMMIT: FEAT: (part) receive capability; add receive function to AzureQueue**

## Add delete function to AzureQueue

What does it do?

-  Get a queue client
   -  Needs queueName, credentials
-  delete message
   -  Needs messageId, popReceipt
-  On err, return err
-  On ok, return result
   -  Values I might care about: date, requestId, version, errorCode, response.status

`qc.deleteMessages()` doesn't return much because it has no real data payload. [MessageIdDeleteHeaders](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/javascript/api/@azure/storage-queue/messageiddeleteheaders?view=azure-node-latest), which isn't much more than I've listed above, plus `_response` and `parsedHeaders`.

Because all the responses include the (Azure) requestId in the main body, I removed `sendRequestId` and `receiveRequestId`. The adapter can translate it to the right prefix in the response.

How can it succeed? How can it fail?

Delete returns 204 when it deletes the message. I confirmed the SDK throws/rejects when delete fails (modified queue reader to try a few failures, discarded changes)

Tests and code

-  [x] queueClient throws -> SDKError
-  [x] queueClient rejects -> SDKError
-  [x] queueClient resolves < 300, Base64 -> ok

**COMMIT: FEAT: (part) receive capability; add delete function to AzureQueue**

## Use a single adapter for all intents

-  Reorganize around `AzureBackupInterfaceStoreAdapter` -- because it's about storing backups (vs. delete, restore)
-  ~~Add "intent" to constructor; only send if send intent~~
   -  Let's not complicate it; trust the team to use it correctly
-  Apply pattern to names in `AzureQueue` (related to sendMessage)
-  Rename adapter methods: send
   -  Consider passing data in an object to reduce errors
-  Adjust tests and code

After changes, everything is passing tests, including the event test.

Key lesson learned: When using the queue adapter, be sure the environment is set up.

-  This may be a reason to pass all the data to the adapter and use specific credential types (ClientCertificateCredential, ClientSecretCredential, ManagedIdentityCredential if on-Azure), though I'd still need to set up mock credential data and pass it for tests; having it in the constructor requirements might help remember it, though.

**COMMIT: REFACTOR: use a single adapter for send, receive,delete, isAlive (BackupInterfaceStoreAdapter)**

## Build status received message handler (for poller) and event

Context: The poller will attempt to read messages from the queue. For each message it reads, it will call the message handler.

-  I want to pass the poller the message handler function so I can use the same poller code to monitor different queues (difference instances).

What does the message handler do?

-  Accepts (parameter) the message item
-  `JSON.parse()` the item's `messageText`
   -  try/catch because `JSON.parse()` can throw
   -  On throw
      -  Log the error
      -  If item's `dequeueCount` >= 4 assume it's broken and a human needs to look at it
         -  Store message item (location TBD)
         -  Delete message from queue (so we quit wasting effort processing it)
      -  Return an error `AdapterErrors.StatusJsonError`
-  Creates a `StoreStatusReceived` event
   -  parsed object, item's `messageId`, `popReceipt`, `dequeueCount`
-  Calls `DomainEventBus.publishToSubscribers()`
   -  Need to make this method public
-  Logs event created
-  Returns ok

What does the event do?

-  Carries the received message data for the subscriber

I could let the subscriber handle the `JSON.parse()` and "message is bad" case but the subscriber is closer to the business concerns, so shouldn't need to worry about decoding and parsing the message or ensuring it's readable. The message handler isn't checking the contents of the `messageText`, only that it's potentially usable.

How can it succeed? How can it fail?

-  `JSON.parse()` can throw if the `messageText` is invalid JSON
   -  Succeed -> publish domain event and return ok
   -  Fail -> return err (see notes above)

If there are no subscribers, the event does nothing, but neither the message handler nor the event can do anything about that. In this case, the use case won't run, so look for ways to detect that in unit testing or integration testing.

Tests

-  [x] when the messageText is not valid JSON, it returns an error (StatusJsonError)
-  [x] when the messageText is valid JSON, it returns ok and publishes an event
   -  Maybe spy on DomainEventBus publish and look for it to be called (this works)

Code

-  Define the event
   -  `getAggregateId()` returns undefined
   -  `getAggregateId()` is used on
      -  `AggregateRoot` to log a domain event added -- no aggregate, so not in scope
      -  Subscribers to get the aggregate id -- the subscriber will get the data, not the aggregate id, so not in scope
   -  Data subscriber wants is in `event.messageItem: StoreStatusMessageItem`
      -  `MessageObject` member is a `StoreStatusMessage` with the parsed object ready to use
      -  If the interface does not provide certain members, the use case or archive instance repo's mapToDb will use null or a value that will store as null
-  Define `IStoreStatusMessageHandler` (adapters) and `StatusJsonError` (in AdapterErrors)
-  Stub the message handler
-  Write err test
   -  I need a message to pass, requires a messageText that's a JSON string
      -  Build a message object and `JSON.stringify()` it
      -  Test will spread and replace with a bad string
   -  The message handler needs to create the event and call publish
      -  Make publish public
   -  I need a message handler
   -  Spy on publish (call 0 times)
-  Write ok test
   -  Same basic setup, but leave good JSON
   -  publish called 1 time

The subscriber will map the raw message to a DTO and call the status received use case.

## Add receive function to adapter

Context: The queue poller will use the adapter's receive function to read messages from the queue.

What does it do?

-  Ensure messageCount parameter is a number; default to 1 if it isn't
-  Call `AzureQueue.receiveMessage()` to get a message (or several)
-  Return the message (messages) to the caller

How can it succeed? How can it fail?

-  messageCount check
   -  If it fails, it will set to 1 so no error
-  `receiveMessage` (`mockResolvedValue`; expect to be called 1x)
   -  Ok -> proceed
   -  Err -> `InterfaceAdapterError`

To test this, I need an adapter, and some messages to return (don't have to be good messages, but want to see the array work)

Tests

-  [x] when receiveMessage fails, it returns an err (InterfaceAdapterError)
-  [x] when receiveMessage succeeds with messages, it returns ok with messages
-  [x] when receiveMessage succeeds with no messages, it returns ok with no messages

-  Message handler test will call receive and get a mock response from the SDK, so will be covered there
-  ~~Add `mapToDomain` for queue data (response entity in backup request module)~~
   -  ~~This adapter is for `BackupRequest` use only, so mapper here is okay~~
   -  I'm going to return an array of raw-ish messages and let the subscriber handle DTO mapping; lets me make the adapter generic

Where do I want to put this test? I'd like to avoid an adapter specific test suite. Send is tested from the send use case. I want to end up with this test and the message handler tests in the receive status use case, but I need to build other parts first. For now, I'll put this in the message handler spec so everything is in one place when I get ready to move it. Use a separate describe block for now.

These changes affected other parts of the code because I redefined a few types to better align with "Store" and "Interface" language.

**COMMIT: FEAT: (part) receive capability; build status received message handler and event; add receive function to adapter**

## Build event subscriber

Context: runs the status received use case

What does it do?

-  Gets the message data from the StoreStatusReceived event
-  Gets `messageItem.messageObject` from the event
-  Builds a DTO from the `messageObject`
-  try - log use case start, run the use case, log result (see other subscribers for details)
-  catch - log an error

How to test it?

-  Do a full flow test in event tests (thought this might go in the use case tests, but I think it's in event tests now)
   -  Define mock message(s)
   -  Set up SDK env
   -  Mock SDK result (receive, delete)
   -  Mock ORM results for "receive status reply" use case
   -  Create the adapter, repos (BackupRequest, Backup), subscriber (with use case), message handler
   -  (loop to get 3 messages, 1 message, 0 messages) Receive from the adapter; for each message, call the message handler
-  Expect
   -  The message handler will create and publish the event
   -  The subscriber will call the use case for the message
   -  Expect the message handler's processMessage to be called 1x per message
   -  Expect publish to be called 1x per message
   -  Expect Backup repo save to be called 1x per ok message
      -  Make 1 of the 3 messages fail
   -  Expect BackupRequest save to be called 1x per message
   -  Expect AQ.delete to be called 1x per message
      -  Won't pass until delete done, so add it when ready to test and write delete
      -  Consider adding a bad JSON message with a dequeueCount that triggers delete to see that part work too

Do I want to make the use case delete or let the subscriber delete?

The subscriber will be provider specific because it has to interpret the backup provider's messages and subscribe to a provider specific event, so let it delete. Then the use case doesn't need to worry about the queue at all. If the subscriber doesn't need to delete, it's okay. Or if one provider uses HTTP to report status, the use case isn't calling something it doesn't need to call. (It doesn't need an interface adapter.) This approach avoids bringing changeable technology concerns into the business process (use case). It also avoids a lot of changes to the use case tests, so saves a pile of work.

-  Write code

## Add delete function to adapter

What does it do?

-  Call deleteMessage on AzureQueue
-  Handle error

According to [Queue service error codes](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/storageservices/queue-service-error-codes), if the pop receipt is invalid, gets a 400, which should Promise.reject.

**COMMIT: FEAT: (done) receive capability; build event subscriber; add delete function to adapter; name changes**
