# Build EnqueueBackupRequestUseCase and tie it to the controller

### What does it do?

-  Receives an HTTP call from a controller; rename `ExpressCreateBackupRequestController` and change the use case it calls
-  Call `BackupRequest.create()` to confirm the request can be created; goal is to detect errors here so we can respond to the caller
-  Add the request to the `ReceivedBackupRequests` queue

### What does it need

-  New use case
-  An adapter for BullMQ that can add an event to a queue; get the queue name from the event
   -  mapToQueue function
-  An event type for `BackupRequestReceived`

For unit tests, I need a way to mock BullMQ. Will probably be similar to how I mock @azure/storage-queue.

For checking purposes, I need a way to see what's in the queue. In the application, BullMQ queue watchers will be based on the BullMQ `Worker`

### What can go right? What can go wrong?

-  when the request cannot be created, it returns a PropsError
   -  The controller should return 400 Bad Request, which it already does for PropsError
-  when the request cannot be added to the queue, it returns a EventBusError
   -  The controller should return 500 Server Error
   -  EventBusError replaces DatabaseError as a possible return
   -  Need to understand what BullMQ returns on error to decide how to structure the error data for logs
-  when the request is added to the queue, it returns ok and the request data enqueued
   -  Request data enqueued will include request id, backup job id, data date, received timestamp (data returned to tenant)

### Notes

-  Copy `CreateBackupRequest` DTO, tests, and use case to `enqueue-backup-request`.
-  Rename files and classes.
-  Create `IBackupRequestEventBus` interface for the adapter.
-  Create `AdapterErrors.EventBusError`; for now, `add` returns whatever was passed as `ok()`
-  Mock BullMQ in tests. Pass to adapter; add adapter constructor to pass it
   -  Not used yet, but let's set up like we know it will be
   -  I'll need to create the queue so I can add to it (`new Queue(queueName)`) .. but, some trial and reading later, the way I'm using `jest.mock`, it mocks the constructor for me, so my mock BullMQ isn't trying to call redis.

Tests are working.

**COMMIT: FEAT: add EnqueueBackupRequestUseCase, BullMQ adapter; tests passing**

-  Copied the "create" controller and changed to enqueue
-  Added enqueue to the init module and routes
-  Split database, Splunk, Redis into different Docker ymls
-  Added `bullMqInfra`, not sure this will stick, but for now it's good
-  Wrote a simple test to prove BullMQ works
-  Changed test to read data from queue and log it

Ran the application and posted 3 requests. Ran test reader and saw the data hit the queue.

So, the basic structure is working.

Enqueue controller is not passing tests because something isn't handling errors correctly.
Create controller is not passing tests but will probably go away in the future.

**COMMIT: FEAT: add controller, wire into the API; see it connect and move data**

Controller tests were failing because I didn't change them to mock BullMQ.

Pass queue name -- how do I really want the adapter to work?

I want to use this adapter for all the backup request queues. Different queues will have different payloads.

-  Received -> backup request data from calling `BackupRequest.create`
-  Created -> backup request id; use case will get data from database
-  Allowed -> backup request id; ditto
-  Replied -> data from status message

I don't want separate functions per queue, so `add` would need to take anything and send to different queues.

I also observe that the data on the queue is the actual backup request object, so needs to be mapped. What if:

-  I had an event object that conformed to an interface as passed that instead
-  The event objects were per event type
-  The constructor accepted an object and stored it locally
-  The event object had `get queueData()` that returned the data to send to the queue
   -  Basically a function to map the local object to the queue data
-  The event object had `get jobName()` that returned the value to use for job name
   -  Gets the value from local data
-  The event object had `get queue()` that returned a `Queue`
   -  Returns a queue from a global object -- constructed similar to `logger`
-  Pass the event to the `publish` function
   -  `await event.queue.add(event.jobName, event.data)`

For logging, pull from the `Job` returned `queue.name`, `name` (job name), `id`, `new Date(timestamp)`. I'm cautious about including `data`, but for a debug/trace log, maybe. Then I could add the `Job` to the event when done (`set job()`) and add `get logData()`. Then I can return the event and let whatever

I think that would work because queue, job name construction, and event data structure should be the same for all events of a given type. The adapter becomes generic and could be pushed into `common/adapters`. I'll put events in `infrastructure/bullmq/backup-request` for now. I'm aware of the adapter and other clutter created by express vs. fastify and typeorm vs prisma in the code base already. Also, these events need to return a BullMQ `Queue`, so are infrastructure specific.

A similar pattern should work for Kafka with getters for `message` (includes key) and `topic`. The main downside I see is this approach ties events to the queue infrastructure. But, if I define the interface as `messageData`, `messageKey`, `topicName`, I can make the interface generic so the domain aggregate can create events and the use case can pass those events to a generic adapter interface.

However, this will break compatibility with the existing DEB and require changes in `common`. Before I start this work, I'll create a branch off this branch so I can revert to the DEB easily.

```typescript
interface IDomainEvent {
	get messageData(): unknown;
	get messageKey(): string;
	get topicName(): string;
}
```

Then for BullMq, I'd need something like `new this.bullmq.Queue(event.topicName(), { connection: bmqConnectionOptions })` before `queue.add`.

The domain aggregate creates events (`new SomeEvent(this)`). How can I make it easy to switch between event types (BullMQ vs. Kafka vs. whatever)? I need some way to alias the infrastructure events.

```typescript
// Maybe put this in an object to namespace it.

// TS in vS Code doesn't complain about syntax like this where the events are classes
   receivedEvent: () => {
      switch (process.env.QUEUE_TYPE.toLowerCase()) {
         case 'bullmq':
            return BullMqReceivedEvent;

         case 'kafka'::
            return KafkaReceivedEvent;

         default:
            return InMemReceivedEvent;
      }
   }

   // needs () around receivedEvent() to force resolution before new
   const ev = new (receivedEvent())({});
```

So, then I can give the use case a messaging adapter and call `publishEventsForAggregate()` on it, which would iterate the `AggregateRoot`'s domain events and call `publishEvent()`. Or maybe

```typescript
// maybe something like this and use publishResults for error handling
if (this.domainEvents.length > 0) {
	publishResults = this.domainEvents.map((ev) => eventBusAdapter.publish(ev));
}
```

Regarding error handling:

-  If I have a clustered backend (redis, kafka), how likely is backend down?
-  What could cause publish to fail besides backend down (that wouldn't be caught in sane testing)?
-  What should happen if publish fails for a reason other than backend down?
-  How likely am I to have > 1 event at a time?
-  What happens if I have > 1 event and some publish but others don't?

I think those are the major pieces.

NEXT

-  Confirm approach
-  Branch from this branch and proceed

OLD

-  Pass queue name to the event bus methods
-  Decide how to name jobs (understand implications)
-  Do I need a mapping function? Or functions? Or will I treat the queue data as a reliable DTO?
-  Is there a way to detect that an add request failed due to a connect error?
   -  I won't need DER in the future, but a simpler CircuitBreaker would be good (mediate connections)

**COMMIT: CHORE: close this branch**
