## Build test-events for BullMQ

## Planning

Let's walk through how it works to understand how we might test.

-  Accepted use case publishes an event
   -  Need to mock BMQ add to return ok
-  To run the Receive use case, I need
   -  A `BullmqConsumer` for the use case
   -  A BMQ `Job` based on the event
   -  To pass the `Job` to the consumer
   -  Consumer calls the use case, which will publish an event
      -  "add ok" mock should still be good
-  To run the other use cases, I need
   -  Same as above
-  Would like to have a generic "event to `Job`" method so I don't need to manually construct `Job` instances.

The `Job` constructor signature is:

```typescript
new Job<DataType, ReturnType, NameType>(queue: MinimalQueue, name: NameType, data: DataType, opts?: JobsOptions, id?: string): Job<DataType, ReturnType, NameType>
```

I think the `MinimalQueue` will be the most challenging bit to fake.

Or I could write a function to return `Job` from a name, id and data

-  Would be incomplete, but complete enough for the consumer
-  `data` is the whole event, including `data.event`, which is the actual data to pass to the use case
-  Consumer cares about `name`, `id`, `data` and `attemptsMade` members

If we write it like the in-memory `test-events` only need to test the success case.

-  The goal of `test-events` is to test the flow through all the use cases
-  `BullmqConsumer` is generic to all consumers, so if it works for one, it works for all
-  But maybe should have tests for throw cases for the consumer to ensure they behave as expected

## Is that approach any different from testing the use cases?

I doubt it is.

-  Tests with the in-memory event bus run the events through the bus because it doesn't rely on external services
-  I can't mock BullMQ's use of Redis, so I would need to mock Redis to really test this, and then I'd be testing BullMQ
-  By creating the `Job` myself, I'm really just testing the consumer--which isn't a bad idea, but doesn't need the full chain model of `test-events`

So, let's repurpose this thinking to create a consumer test.

-  Create a `BmqConsumer` for a use case
-  Create a `Job` for the consumer
-  Call the consumer with the job

Test cases to build:

-  when the event handler fails with a connection error, it throws an EventBusError and increments connectFailureCount
-  when the event handler fails with another error, it throws an EventBusError and does not increment connectFailureCount
-  when the event handler fails and too many retries, it throws an UnrecoverableError
-  when the event handler data is good, the consumer returns (no throws)

The goal isn't to test:

-  The use case, so I'll write a test use case that just returns and mock it
-  The event, so I'll write a test event that has one attribute

Looking at the code, I already have a test suite for the consumer using an existing use case. I'll replace it with the test use case and event and improve the tests.

Actual test cases:

-  when a handler fails for a connect error, it throws an EventBusError and increments counts
-  when a job fails with non-connect error, it throws an EventBusError and increments retryCount, not connectFailureCount
-  when a job fails too many times, it throws an UnrecoverableError
-  when the use case throws an error, it rethrows the error **(NEW)**
-  when a job succeeds, it returns with no thrown errors

Improving the tests also let me to use a generic use case type in `BullmqConsumer`, so I don't need to list the use cases in a union type. Less risk of forgetting a use case type in the union.

**COMMIT: TEST: improve BullmqConsumer test spec (and consumer itself as a result)**
