# Push event intelligence into events

## Plan

When I was experimenting with Kafka, I built this interface:

```typescript
export interface IBusMessage {
	get messageKey(): string;
	get messageData(): unknown;
	get messageDataString(): string;
	get topicName(): string;
	get messageTimestamp(): Date;
	get retryCount(): number;
	incrementRetryCount(): void;
}
```

Example implementation:

```typescript
export class KBackupRequestAccepted implements IBusMessage {
	private _messageTimestamp: Date;
	private _retryCount: number;
	private _messageData: KBackupRequestAcceptedData;
	private _messageKey: string;

	constructor(backupRequest: BackupRequest) {
		this._messageTimestamp = new Date();
		this._retryCount = 0;
		this._messageData = {
			backupRequestId: backupRequest.backupRequestId.value,
			backupJobId: backupRequest.backupJobId.value,
			dataDate: backupRequest.dataDate,
			preparedDataPathName: backupRequest.preparedDataPathName,
			statusTypeCode: backupRequest.statusTypeCode,
			transportTypeCode: backupRequest.transportTypeCode,
			getOnStartFlag: backupRequest.getOnStartFlag,
			receivedTimestamp: backupRequest.receivedTimestamp,
			requesterId: backupRequest.requesterId,
		};
		this._messageKey = this._messageData.backupRequestId;
	}

	get messageKey() {
		return this._messageKey;
	}

	get messageData() {
		return this._messageData;
	}

	get messageDataString() {
		return JSON.stringify(this._messageData);
	}

	get topicName() {
		return 'backup-request-accepted';
	}

	get messageTimestamp() {
		return this._messageTimestamp;
	}

	get retryCount() {
		return this._retryCount;
	}

	incrementRetryCount() {
		this._retryCount++;
	}
}
```

I want to build events this way so the adapter publish method doesn't need to understand how to serialize or deserialize the event from the queue.

**Events to build**

-  `BackupRequestAccepted.event.ts`
-  `BackupRequestReceived.event.ts`
-  `BackupRequestAllowed.event.ts`
-  `BackupRequestSent.event.ts`

I'll build events for the receive status side when I get events for the receive request side working.

In the future, I may add `BackupRequestNotAllowed.event.ts` if I do notifications for that case.

**Applying them**

For initial use, I'll have the use case create the event and publish it. After I get the events working, I'll look at possibly moving event creation into `AggregateRoot`.

## Notes

-  Create the first two events in `Domain`
   -  Not sure I like that placement, but will think about it later
-  Create `src/infrastructure/event-bus/IEventBus.ts`
   -  BullMq stuff will end up here eventually
-  Add interface to `IEventBus`
-  Build accepted event based on code above
-  Change accepted use case to create event
-  Change `BmqBackupRequestEventBus` and interface to use the new patterns
   -  This change affects many places
   -  Event bus is no longer bound to `BackupRequest`; move later
-  See tests run for accepted use case
-  Change received use case to create event
-  See tests run for received use case
-  Change consumer logging
   -  Do all error logging in the `catch` block because `throw`s in the `try` end up in the `catch`
   -  `catch` needs to log for any unexpected `throw`s, logging in both places would double-log

Starting everything up to see it run, the worker didn't pick anything up. The queue name didn't match.

-  After testing, change the queue names in the events to be like `accepted-backup-requests` (noun) vs. `backup-request-accepted` (verb)
-  The `Receive` use case seems to be expecting the wrong status from the accepted queue -- this was caused by restart recovery, I think
-  Creating the event is failing
   -  After some tracing the event data isn't where the consumer expects
   -  `publish` needs to change given the new event structure
   -  In events, call the event data `domainEvent`

After some cleanup in tests due to the change in the event structure, all tests are passing. Running the api and receive worker show events in Redis and data in the database acting as expected.

**COMMIT: REFACTOR: make events provide data needed to publish, which unbinds event bus from specfic aggregate types**
