# Add aggregate and events for create

## Add common domain objects

[x] AggregateRoot
[x] IDomainEvent
[x] IDomainEventHandler
[x] DomainEventBus

## Change BackupRequest to AggregateRoot

[x] extends AggregateRoot
[x] fix whatever breaks

## Add event for backup request created

[x] Rename `create-backup` to `backup-request`; resolve any issues
[x] Add domain event to aggregate from use case
[x] test: AggregateRoot reports event created

**COMMIT: 3.1.3.1 - change BackupRequest to aggregate and add event on create**

## Add event subscriber for backup request created

[x] Add event subscriber (`backup-request/send-request-to-interface`) -- for now, I'll use this use case
[x] Cause events to dispatch (add to repo factory `save()`)

I'm seeing the `CreateRequestUseCase` tests create a domain event for `BackupRequestCreated` amd that the event executes. So, the event bus is basically working.

Problem: TypeScript `strict: true` complains because the domain events (implement `IDomainEvent`) add an attribute for the aggregate. The subscribe function wants a function with an `IDomainEvent` parameter as a parameter. TS complains when I pass a function with a `BackupRequestCreated` domain event parameter because the attribute is missing on `IDomainEvent` but required by `BackupRequestCreated`. The problem is `strict: true` applying `strictBindCallApply`. The fix is to explicity set `strictBindCallApply: false` in `tsconfig.json`.

**COMMIT: 3.1.3.2 - prove events are publishing and subscribers running**

I don't need the pub/sub tests now so I'll remove them.

**COMMIT: 3.1.3.3 - remove pub/sub test overhead (not needed now)**

### Event dispatch

Stemmler uses Sequelize hooks to trigger event processing (in `src/shared/infra/database/sequelize/hooks/index.ts` -> `src/common/infrastructure/somewhere`). Some other people trigger events in the repository `save()` calls the infrastructure (ORM) `save()`. I like the second approach better because it's simpler to understand and doesn't rely on infrastructure behavior.

I'm not writing the infrastructure yet, but want to be able to run a test that shows create -> check allowed -> send to interface working. To do that, I need a way to trigger events.

I can write a test that runs create, then runs dispatch on the resulting aggregate to trigger check allowed, but how do I get results for check allowed so I can see it works? And then chain to send and see it works too (requires getting the check allowed result and dispatching the aggregate again)?

Also, each step will need a repo that returns the previous step's data. IDomainEvent includes the aggregate, so I could add a method that returns the aggregate, not just the id, for testing purposes. Or I could beef up the test repo to include data. Can I get it to trigger events?

-  Add a `data` member to the object
-  `save()` finds the data member by id and updates or inserts if it doesn't exist; also dispatches events (`DomainEventBus.dispatchEventsForAggregate(id)`)
-  If no `getByIdResult`, `getById()` finds the data member by id and returns a copy or throws
   I think that's all I need maybe?

This is more an integration test, but it is about the business logic choreography, so I want to run it to see the flow working.

I may need to log output, so this work may lead to a logger. That needs to happen soon anyway, before I get too much stuff needing logging.
