# Controllers part 2

Now that I have Prisma repos in place, I think I can build unit tests that work for controllers.

I left the 4.x controllers branch with a few conclusions.

-  I need repos so I can instantiate use cases so I can instantiate controllers.
-  I need to be able to control the repo's responses.
   -  I think I found a way to do that with `jest.mockResolvedValue()` and `jest.mockResolvedValueOnce()`.
-  My goal with this testing is ensuring the service will work when it gets an HTTP call using `fastify.inject()` in tests to simulate the call.
-  `BackupJobServiceAdapter` will remain fake for now.

## Plan

-  6.1 - `FastifyCreateBackupRequestController` (rename).
   -  1 - Figure out how to test for `InvalidApiVersionError`.
   -  2-n - Add tests for other test conditions
      -  Invalid properties get `PropsError` (how many props to test?)
      -  Other use case failures get ServerError and the enclosed error is the proper type.
      -  If all is good, get the expected reply value
   -  n+1 - Can (should) I replace some or all use case tests with controller tests?
-  6.2 - Controller or similar adapter for receiving reply -- to be called by a queue watcher, not HTTP
   -  Build tests and controller/adapter together iteratively
-  6.3 - Controller/adapter to receive backup requests from a queue watcher
   -  Build tests and controller/adapter together iteratively

Think about how the startup recovery process will run.

-  A use case that coordinates other use cases?
-  A use case that creates `BackupRequest`s, adds events, and triggers dispatch?
-  Consider order -- Sent to interface comes before check allowed to avoid risk of overlap confusion
