# First test for circuit breaker-ish

## Plan (from 11.0)

-  Build the circuit breaker; just a stubbed out skeleton
-  Write a test to see it trip on a connect failure
   -  Create adapter with circuit breaker
   -  Mock to get a connect failure
   -  Call adapter to trip the breaker
   -  Expect the breaker to be open, adapter called, error from adapter

See 11.0 for details of the circuit breaker.

## Stubbed CB

I have one circuit breaker class that's shared. It's used with adapters, so it goes in `src/common/adapters/CircuitBreakerWithRetry.ts`.

Added `successToCloseCount` and `failureToOpenCount` to set how many of each are needed to change state.

## Test

I'll create a simple adapter, use case, and subscriber for the unit tests. When I add to a real adapter, I can write it into an integration test (maybe `testEvents`).

I'll define

-  `TestService`
   -  Represents the external service framework (SDK)
   -  Has a `test()` function the test can mock; default return is ok
-  `TestEvent`
   -  Has an id, retry count
-  `TestSubscriber`
   -  Gets the event and calls the use case with the id
   -  If `errorData.isConnectFailure()` add `isAlive` and call `addRetryEvent`
-  `TestUseCase`
   -  Call the adapter and returns the result
-  `TestAdapter`
   -  Checks CB state and may fail fast
   -  Calls `testService.test()`
   -  Handles response

I'm moving this to `utils` because `common` is otherwise without tests. Also, this CB isn't really a DDD/CleanArch thing, which is what `common` is all about enabling.

If adapters register `isAlive()` with the CB, I end up duplicating it in different adapters for the same service. Add it to the CB on init.

When returning functions in `errorData` need to `.bind(this.circuitBreaker)` so they get the right context.

Added an exported interface `ConnectFailureErrorData` to the CB that defines the expected data for a connect failure.

**COMMIT: FEAT: when the service returns a connect failure, it becomes open**
