# Event retries

-  It should accept events to run on retry

   -  call addRetryEvent and get event count from cb

-  Subscriber fast fails if circuit is open
   -  create cb with service set to not alive
   -  create event
   -  publish to subscriber
      -  need to run subscriber and get failure to set connection check
   -  expect use case to be called; cb to be open
   -  spy.mockClear() to reset counters
   -  publish to subscriber
   -  expect use case not to be called

Getting this to pass took some work. I was getting unexpected results from the `isConnected` callback passed to the the subscriber. Now other tests are failing. After chasing it for a while last night, I woke up this morning and thought, "They were passing before. What changed?" (Obviously!) So, off to find out what's going on.

## Fixing failures from formerly working tests

First `when the circuit is Open, it checks until the connection is restored then moves to HalfOpen` is not moving to HalfOpen (stays Open).

-  This test does not use a subscriber or events, just calls the adapter to move to Open and waits for `awaitIsAlive()` to move to HalfOpen
-  `runRetries` just returns, so cannot change state, but I set retry delays to 5000ms so they can't be an issue
-  I see where the first loop through `awaitIsAlive` returns false (result.isOk() is false); then the test sets liveness to true
-  And six more loops all return false, so why is it returning false
-  Comparing to the previous commit
   -  I added `addRetryEvent` and the data to support it; not used in this test
   -  I changed from a `do...while` to `while`; if the evaluation is different, it could cause the loop to keep running, but that shouldn't affect liveness
   -  So, is it something in `TestService`?; let's see what `isAlive()` returns in `setLiveness()`; returns ok
   -  That suggests the CB has an unreliable `isAlive`; that seems strange because it was passing before
   -  When the CB calls `isAlive`, it's getting an undefined `liveness` value, but when `setLiveness` calls `isAlive`, it gets `true`
      -  Suggests CB is looking at a different `isAlive`
      -  `.bind(service)` doesn't solve it
-  I'll turn this test into a small program and debug it

Of course, that requires some setup.

In `package.json` add two scripts. Yes, compile the whole project because `tsc` gets lost trying to compile just `test.ts`.

```json
		"build:testApp": "npx tsc",
		"run:testApp": "node ./dist/test.js"
```

I tested both scripts and it works. (Note, requires a fast Ctrl + C because `awaitIsAlive` is stuck in a loop.)

Ensure `tsconfig` includes `"sourceMap": true`, which conflicts with inline source map, so turn that off.

Create `.vscode/launch.json`

```json
{
	"version": "0.2.0",
	"configurations": [
		{
			"type": "node",
			"request": "launch",
			"name": "Launch Program",
			"skipFiles": ["<node_internals>/**"],
			"program": "${workspaceFolder}/dist/test.js",
			"outFiles": ["${workspaceFolder}/dist/**/*.js"],
			"env": { "NODE_ENV": "development", "APP_ENV": "dev" },
			"resolveSourceMapLocations": ["${workspaceFolder}/**", "!**/node_modules/**"],
			"preLaunchTask": "prepare app to debug",
			"postDebugTask": "clean app after debug"
		}
	]
}
```

Create `.vscode/tasks.json`

```json
{
	"version": "2.0.0",
	"tasks": [
		{
			"type": "npm",
			"script": "build:testApp",
			"group": "build",
			"label": "npm: build - testApp",
			"detail": "npx tsc"
		},
		{
			"type": "shell",
			"label": "clean app",
			"command": "rm -rf ./build"
		},
		{
			"label": "prepare app to debug",
			"type": "shell",
			"command": "echo prepare app to debug",
			"dependsOrder": "sequence",
			"dependsOn": ["npm: build - testApp"]
		},
		{
			"label": "clean app after debug",
			"type": "shell",
			"command": "echo clean app after debug",
			"dependsOrder": "sequence",
			"dependsOn": ["clean app"]
		}
	]
}
```

In `test.ts`, set a breakpoint near the top of the test app's `main()`. Go to the debugger panel on the left of VSCode and click the green arrow next to "Launch Program". It should compile everything, run the test app, and drop into the debugger at the breakpoint.

-  After creating the CB, before anything else, the CB's `isAlive` is seeing undefined
-  Stop the debug session; change the CB's `isAlive` to `.bind(service)`; restart
-  In the test app, it's working
-  Stop the debugger, remove `.bind()`; restart and see what we get
-  I see the CB's isAlive is getting undefined (I think; will trace into and confirm)
   -  When I step into the `isAlive()` in `awaitIsAlive`, `this` is the CB, not the service, which is what I expected
-  Stop, add `.bind()`, restart check same place
   -  I hit `awaitIsAlive` and step into `isAlive`; `this` is the service

So, binding should fix the test (and should happen in all tests).

And it does. I though I tried that before and the test still failed, but... Oh, well. Now I can run the debugger, which may come in handy later.

I'm seeing some output oddities--`awaitIsAlive` keeps running when it shouldn't. I'll set liveness true after each test. And remove `console.log`s I added for debugging. I'm convinced `awaitIsAlive` is stopping, because I don't get an endless stream of "logging after test finished" warnings and `htop` shows idle CPU consumption. (Last night, I had a case where I wasn't stopping `awaitIsAlive` properly and it was eating CPU).

All tests are passing.

-  Using arrow functions as class methods close over the class's context, so `this` is reliably the class's `this`, avoiding the need to `bind`. The downside is, it allocates the function for each instance, instead of binding to the prototype, so consumes more memory. I'll stick with binding.
-  Using `self` in a class requires referencing `this.self`, which defeats the purpose.

Something to think about later: I could define `ICircuitBreakerService`. That interface would include `isAlive`. I could write services for the CB, similar to my `TestService`, then pass the service, avoiding the need to bind. I could include the service in the adapters and use the same `isAlive`. Each service may need to be defined as static. This makes a sort of sense because it avoids bare `isAlive` functions and could carry any context or similar that an adapter or group of adapters that use a common service might need.

But, if I have only three external things and one of those only has one adapter, it might be better to just define the functions and pass them.

## Running retry events

The test sets up similar to the last test. I need to run some events through the subscriber and have them fail so the subscriber will call `addRetryEvent`.

I'd like to have a few events succeed, but then lose the connection while processing retries so I can see that

-  Any retries that fail return to the array
-  I stop processing retries when the adapter fails

But that depends on timing, which could be challenging to get right.

Also need to ensure that any events that arrive while the service is not alive get set up for retry (subscriber changes).

-  [x] when the circuit is Open and an event arrives at the subscriber, the event is added for retry
-  [x] when events are awaiting retry and the circuit moves out of Open, the events are retried
   -  The test passes, but I wanted to see it working, so set it up in `test.ts` and walked through it in the debugger to confirm
   -  But now the previous test is failing

It looks like earlier tests' events are somehow ending up in the failing test's circuit breaker. I may change my event creation strategy and assign ids like "Test1-Event1" to enable better tracking. I'm still not sure what's going on, though.

-  Name events to tie them to tests for better understanding
-  Confirmed that events from earlier tests are somehow polluting later tests

Add the ability to halt the circuit breaker. Use an `AbortController` signal so I can also use during application shutdown. (Will also be useful for the queue poller loop.)

-  Change `delay` to support `AbortController` API
   -  Add an optional `signal` parameter
   -  If signal, use promise timeouts and catch an `AbortError`
   -  If Promise resolves return ok, if it rejects for `AbortError` return halted, if it rejects for another reason, throw
-  Then use the `AbortController` to halt the circuit breaker
   -  Circuit breaker state = 'halted'
   -  All functions return/fail on halt
   -  All loops stop on halt
   -  This should kill the circuit breaker so it isn't kicking out events in the background
-  Done and now the tests are happy-ish

Some more digging made me realize that `DomainEventBus` is static, so after the first subscriber is created, it isn't unsubscribed. Some tests were getting `failedServices` from the first subscriber (started with failed services before making any calls). `DomainEventBus` has `clearHandlers()`. Calling that function unsubscribes all subscribers, which is what I needed to fix this test messaging issue. Output makes much more sense now.

Some test code I used for early experiments with `AbortController`.

```javascript
const { setTimeout: setTimeoutPromise } = require('timers/promises');

let state = 'run';

function delay(ms, signal) {
	return setTimeoutPromise(ms, null, { signal }).catch((e) => {
		if (e.name === 'AbortError') console.log('The timeout was aborted', new Date().valueOf());
	});
}

async function awaitLoop(signal) {
	while (state !== 'halt') {
		console.log('awaitLoop');
		await delay(500, signal);
	}
	console.log('exiting awaitLoop', new Date().valueOf());
}

async function main() {
	const ac = new AbortController();
	const signal = ac.signal;

	console.log('start', new Date().valueOf());
	setTimeout(() => {
		state = 'halt';
		ac.abort();
	}, 1200);
	await awaitLoop(signal);
	// after ac.abort(), the ac is permanently halted
}

main();
```

-  [x] when events are being retried and the circuit moves to Open, retries stop
   -  For this test, I can add events to retry and set test and liveness false
   -  Replaced getter for status with `getStatus()`; can't have async getters, resolves `isAlive()` to boolean
   -  Added expects to ensure retries halt based on `retryEventsCount` and sum of `retryCount` on remaining events

All tests are passing.

**COMMIT: FEAT: add event retry capability and halt capability**
