# Use the circuit breaker in the real code

Now that I have it working, time to put it to use.

-  I have unit tests for the circuit breaker, so I don't plan to do extensive testing in the code
-  I do want to have one test that tests on failure and tripping the breaker, just to confirm I'm doing it right

First I'm relocating the code to `common/infrastructure` because that seems like the best place for it. I'm also moving middleware to the same place.

## Where to put it

I have three services:

-  The database (TypeORM for now)
-  The backup job service (a mock for now, so not adding for now)
-  The backup interface service (Azure Queue)

For the database, the circuit breaker goes in the repo. I want one circuit breaker for all the repos because I'm using the same database service for all the repos.

-  I need to create it in the init module and pass it to the repos
-  The repos need to accept it and use it, similar to `TestAdapter` in tests
-  Unit tests for anything that uses a repo will pass a circuit breaker to the unit test; I may set the circuit breaker up in `beforeEach()`

So, let's start with `CreateBackupRequestUseCase`'s test and the `BackupRequestRepo`.

-  I added `serviceName: string` to the circuit breaker; passed as a required option
   -  I don't want to build services, nor do I want to put service names in the adapters
   -  Adding to the circuit breaker means the reported service name will be the one it's configured to support
-  I wrote `isConnectError` to test if a TypeORM error is a connection type failure; in `src/typeorm/utils`
   -  I'll add the TypeORM `isAlive()` function here
   -  I expect I'll have similar for the backup interface and the backup job service
-  If the error isn't a connect error, I don't want to spread the default connect error data; add `errorData` in catch and set appropriately

In `src/typeorm/utils` with warnings:

-  SQL Server specific
-  Based on one connection failure I have from SQL Server
-  Probably needs improvement (research to do)

```typescript
export function isConnectError(errorAny: any): boolean {
	return (
		(errorAny.originalError &&
			errorAny.originalError.message &&
			(errorAny.originalError.message as string).toLowerCase().includes('connect')) ||
		(errorAny.driverError &&
			errorAny.driverError.name &&
			(errorAny.driverError.name as string).toLowerCase().includes('connect')) ||
		(errorAny.code && errorAny.code.toLowerCase() === 'esocket')
	);
}
```

In the tests

```typescript
// at the stop of the block

describe('CreateBackupRequestUseCase - typeorm', () => {
	let mockTypeormCtx: MockTypeormContext;
	let typeormCtx: TypeormContext;
	let circuitBreaker: CircuitBreakerWithRetry;
	let abortController: AbortController;

	beforeEach(() => {
		mockTypeormCtx = createMockTypeormContext();
		typeormCtx = mockTypeormCtx as unknown as TypeormContext;

		const isAlive = () => {
			return Promise.resolve(ok(true));
		};
		abortController = new AbortController();
		circuitBreaker = new CircuitBreakerWithRetry({
			isAlive,
			haltSignal: abortController.signal,
			serviceName: 'TypeORM',
			successToCloseCount: 1,
			failureToOpenCount: 100,
			halfOpenRetryDelayMs: 5,
			closedRetryDelayMs: 5,
			openAliveCheckDelayMs: 5,
		});
	});

	afterEach(() => {
		circuitBreaker.halt();
	});

// in tests

	const repo = new TypeormBackupRequestRepo(typeormCtx, circuitBreaker);

```

In the repo:

```typescript
// after setting functionName, before anything else

if (!this.circuitBreaker.isConnected()) {
	return err(
		new AdapterErrors.DatabaseError('Fast fail', {
			...this.connectFailureErrorData,
			moduleName,
			functionName,
		})
	);
}

// in try if call succeeds

this.circuitBreaker.onSuccess();

// catch(e)

const { message, ...error } = e as Error;
let errorData = { isConnectFailure: false };

if (isConnectError(error)) {
	this.circuitBreaker.onFailure();
	errorData = this.connectFailureErrorData;
}

return err(new AdapterErrors.DatabaseError(message, { ...error, ...errorData, moduleName, functionName }));
```

Let's see if the use case tests run. Yep. All pass.

I'll set up the failure test as a separate test for the circuit breaker later.

-  Create an aggressive breaker (single failure to open)
-  `...save.mockRejectedValueOnce` with an error that will qualify as a connect error by `isConnectError`
-  Expect breaker to be Open, failureCount to be 1

## Repo and use case tests need

-  [x] Apply to remaining use case tests for TypeORM
-  [x] Apply to BackupRepo and where it's used in tests
-  [x] Apply to Prisma repos
-  [x] Apply to use case tests for Prisma

Use case tests for both TypeORM and Prisma are passing.

## Controllers and controller tests need

In the controller tests, I call `buildApp()` to get the app. `buildApp()` calls any `addRoutes` methods, which call `initModule` methods.

Things to consider:

-  I want one circuit breaker per service
   -  So one per database connection, one for the job service, one per interface service
   -  Three for now, could be more later
-  I need the circuit breakers in `initModule`
-  For testability, I need to pass the circuit breakers to `buildApp()` because I use `buildApp()` in the controller tests
-  Build the circuit breakers in the server and pass to `buildApp()` as an object

   -  Only one thing to pass; avoid issues with parameter order

-  Circuit breakers should be created in `buildApp()` or `expressServer` so I can create them per service
   -  The `AbortController` hook probably goes in the server and is passed to `buildApp()` so I can use it in the post-listen `catch` (future)
   -  Added TODO: look into shutdown options; will probably use middleware
-  I'll pass the circuit breakers in an object to avoid issues with ordering, etc.; `initModule` methods can choose what they need

-  [x] Add `buildCircuitBreakers` module/function (typeorm, prisma versions)
   -  Accepts `abortSignal: AbortSignal`; imports `isXConnected` functions from infrastructure
-  [x] In `XServer`, create app-wide abort controller and circuit breakers
-  [x] Pass circuit breakers down to `initModule` functions

I am slowly evolving my directory structure. Moved `common/infrastructure` to `src/infrastructure` because it doesn't really fit `common`. That required a lot of changes to adjust directory paths.

Changes applied for TypeORM and Prisma, Express and Fastify. No lint/syntax errors. The only unit tests failing are controllers, as expected.

Apply changes to controller tests -- add circuit breaker setup/teardown and pass to `buildApp()`.

All tests are passing.

Final test will be to run applications and see them work.

-  Express+TypeORM
   -  I forgot to turn on Azurite's queue and got a failure connecting to Azurite
   -  I didn't set up the circuit breaker for Azure Queue, but I'm adding a starter connection error detector for it so I can include it and see the circuit breaker work.
   -  I'm also reducing the queue isAlive timeout from 5 minutes to 30 seconds for testing purposes.
   -  And this means I need to add the circuit breaker to the queue adapter and make the subscriber check for connect errors

### Notes on Azure queue isConnectError

-  In the SDK, `.../storage/storage-queue/src/policies/StorageRetryPolicy.ts`, network errors are
   -  ETIMEDOUT, ESOCKETTIMEDOUT, ECONNREFUSED, ECONNRESET, ENOENT, ENOTFOUND, TIMEOUT, EPIPE
   -  Maybe also REQUEST_SEND_ERROR
   -  Reference [this file](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/191e4ce330acd60e014c13412204b9598870cfa1/sdk/storage/storage-queue/src/policies/StorageRetryPolicy.ts)

Added TODO: add a configuration method to `AzureQueue` so I can break it's dependency on environment settings.

**COMMIT: FEAT: (tests not passing) add circuit breaker to controllers, two subscribers, and backup interface adapter**

## Problems to resolve

Added `getLenientCircuitBreaker()` in `src/test-helpers/circuitBreakerHelpers`.

-  [x] Message handler is broken because `StoreStatusReceived` event needs `retryCount`
   -  Removed retryCount from the interface, but adding it to events; subscribers use event-specific type, so will get it
-  [x] Prisma `initModule` and `expressApp` are broken because they needs a circuit breaker for the queue adapter
   -  Add queue circuit breaker to `buildCircuitBreakers.prisma`; used in `initModule`
-  Many tests are broken because they need a circuit breaker in the queue adapter
   -  [x] event tests need circuit breakers for ABISA
      -  already use `buildCircuitBreakers`, so just need to use what's returned
   -  [x] message handler tests = same
      -  call `getLenientCircuitBreaker` and build on the fly; needs an `AbortController`
   -  [x] send to interface tests = same (typeorm, prisma)
      -  use `getLenientCircuitBreaker` to build in `beforeEach`
   -  [x] controller tests new circuit breaker for ABISA in the object passed to `buildApp` (typeorm, prisma)
      -  use `getLenientCircuitBreaker` to build in `beforeEach`
   -  All the tests should use permissive circuit breakers, so just need to define and use

All tests passing.

**COMMIT: TESTS: get tests passing after circuit breaker changes**
