# Startup recovery

Linebacker may fail while event triggered use cases are running, leaving requests stranded. For example, a request may be received and fail before it reaches allowed or allowed and fail before it reaches sent. If external resources are down, linebacker may fail with retries pending--and lost when it shuts down.

When linebacker starts, it should check for requests that are "stuck" and retry them. The retry process needs to run in a particular order.

-  Get all allowed requests and repost "request allowed" events
-  Get all received requests and repost "created" events

This order is important because, if linebacker starts running received requests first and some move to allowed before it gets allowed requests, some requests will be sent twice. While the backup interface should be able to handle duplicate requests, linebacker can reduce the risk (and extra traffic) by running restart in this order. Low cost for gain--we need an order anyway, might as well choose one that reduces risk of duplicates.

I need a use case that will read all allowed requests and post events to retry them, then read all received requests and post events to retry them. I want to insert delays between the retries to avoid flooding linebacker or external services. I also want the use case to return quickly and report the number of requests to be retried for each status, so needs to add the retries and not wait for them to run.

On startup, I don't care about the result, but I want to add a route that allows an authorized admin id to check for and run any retries on demand. (This route comes with some risk if it runs as requests are arriving or transiting states. I can write the use case now to return the results and let an event subscriber log them.)

## What this process needs to do

-  When startup reaches an appropriate point, publish a "ready for startup recovery" event and delays to let it start running
   -  Delay will probably be about 1 second
-  The event subscriber runs the `RetryPendingRequestsUseCase`
-  The use case
   -  gets all allowed request ids that were allowed before the event was created (pass event timestamp)
   -  gets all received request ids that were received before the event was created
   -  add events for retry to a retry service
   -  start retries
   -  return results
-  The retry service
   -  take the retry capability out of the circuit breaker and make it a standalone service
   -  needs the events array, retry loop, ability to set delays, ability to stop retries, ability to start retries, ability to add events for retry
-  Effects on circuit breaker
   -  add a retry service
   -  use retry service's add event to add retries
   -  use retry service's start retries when `awaitIsAvailable` gets available
   -  when circuit breaker state changes, change retry delay based on state or stop retries (if it opens again)
-  The use case doesn't care if retries move from the use case's retry service to the circuit breaker's retry service

## Plan

-  Build retry service
-  Change circuit breaker to use the retry service; ensure it passes tests
-  Build use case (test plan TBD at start of this part)
   -  Requires methods on repo--`getAllowedRequestIdsBefore` and `getReceivedRequestIdsBefore`
   -  Each method selects requests for the specified state before a timestamp
   -  Use a custom mapTo function to returns an array of request id values (strings) to return to the use case
-  Add event subscriber and event; publish event on startup
