# Enable startup recovery

I wrote the code and merged it, but realized I forgot to run it and see it all work and forgot to set up the application to use it.

In `initModule` I need to create the use case and subscriber.

-  I need to pass the abort signal down to `initModule` because the DER in the use case requires it
-  Controller tests need to add the new parameter to `buildApp`

I want to avoid running this in controller tests because it complicates setting up mock database results, so the event needs to be published in the server module. I'd like to keep things like `DomainEventBus` out of the server code, so I'll call a function in `src/infrastructure`.

I'm adding a 2 second delay after publishing to give the event time to run before opening the server for requests.

I have a number of Allowed events in the database that got stuck in earlier tests. I've changed a few back to Received state.

Run the application to see if it works.

Output makes sense

-  I see a lot of Allowed events and the three Received events I expected
-  I see a BackupRequestAllowedSubscriber running many times followed by BackupRequestCreated events and BackupRequestAllowed events
-  I also see the server open for requests while events are running
-  In the database, all requests are now Sent
   -  Many have sent timestamps within the last few minutes
   -  I see three with allowed timestamps within the last few minutes, expected from the three Received requests
   -  Others are showing received and allowed timestamps over a range of days, as expected
-  Azurite queue shows many recent messages consistent with timestamps in the database

Looks like it works as planned.

**COMMIT: FEAT: enable startup recovery**
