## Build a better Splunk logging adapter for pino

The goal is to replace `splunk-logging`, which is clunky and not well supported, and improve my pino transport.

## Key features

-  `splunk-logging` accepts options that seem redundant (port, protocol, etc., vs url)
   -  format function; will receive the raw event; returned value sent to Splunk HEC
   -  url; full url including any path
   -  splunkToken; if using splunk token auth, the token
      -  Use to form an Authorization header; if not provided, no header provided
   -  logLevels; array of log level values to send
   -  logLevelKey; name of the member of the log object to look in to get log level
   -  maxBatchWaitMs
   -  maxBatchBytes
   -  maxBatchMessages
   -  abortSignal
-  Use `got` for http because I'm using it elsewhere
   -  consider `postHttp` as a config parameter; can use whatever HTTP you want, just adapt to conform
   -  any retry configuration goes in the post function
-  Manage batch queue as an array of serialized JSON strings
-  Better timer management than `splunk-logging`
   -  abort signal to halt it
   -  consider starting/stopping a timeout vs interval
-  Every raw event is an object passed to `sendEvent`
-  `sendEvent`
   -  Run format on raw event
   -  Add to queue
   -  Check for send
-  `flushQueue`
   -  join queue entries into a single string
      -  strings make logging options more flexible
   -  set up request
   -  `postHttp`

Drafted the code. Included `getQueue()` to return a copy of the queue for testing.

More changes to the code. Made a class and TypeScript.

I'm planning to skip the abort controller on the send interval because this is separate from the application.

Next: Replace `splunk-logger` in `pinoSplunkTransport`.

-  I had some issues in my log formatter that came down to me setting up the data shape wrong
-  Those errors led me to improve error handling for the post to Splunk
   -  Logs to console and adds an error to the queue for Splunk
   -  On error, resets timer and queue size to give some space before logging again
-  Large changes to options structure as I worked through data shape errors and other issues
   -  Includes log level map option as a `Map`, which actually works (I think the old way had issues)
-  Better use of options in `pstBin.ts`; also getting Splunk token from env
-  Change authnerizer logging to not include invalid tokens and to only include header and payload for decoded tokens
-  Removed formatter in `pinoLogger.ts` in favor of letting `SplunkLogger` add `severity` based on log level map (reliable name, avoid duplicate field values)

**COMMIT: FEAT: replace splunk-logging; major improvements to logger setup**

Possible future feature: add an option to pass `_postEvent` (post to Splunk) as an option. This change would allow using any HTTP sender solution, just wrap it to adapt it. Requires passing a couple of extra values to the function so it isn't dependent on access to values in the class.

I saw that logger http errors were spamming Splunk, so added an http error count. Always console log the error, but don't Splunk-log more than 5 consecutive errors. Reset error count on successful post.
