# Track and return request statistics for healthz

Turned off `x-powered-by` header in responses.

Requests received, responded, successful (2xx), client failure (4xx), server failure (5xx), possibly by endpoint

I think this kind of stats tracking goes with req/res logging (pinomor), but the data needs to be somewhere `healthz` can get it, so probably application global singleton. Or maybe put it on `app`.

Possibilities:

-  I can use Maps to track data and `Map.entries()` to get data I can pass to `Object.fromEntries()` to get an object in response
-  I could keep calls by route using `req.route.path` to maintain a Map
-  I could keep a Map of response values

Let's say I have

-  `requestCount`, `responseCount` (always increment)
-  `requestsByPath` Map of request counts by `req.route.path`
-  `responsesByStatus` Map of response counts by `res.statusCode`
-  `addRequest` method -- update `requestCount`, `set( req.route.path, (get(req.route.path) || 0) + 1`
-  `addResponse` method -- update `responseCount`, set(get||0 + 1) status,
-  `toObject` -- method that returns data as an object

After some thought, I don't want to create coupling with pinomor, so zpages will have middleware that hooks into the request and response and captures the data.

## Build it

-  Built a simple JS middleware in zpages module to track request statistics.
-  Added `getRequestStats()` (returns `toObject()`) so I don't expose the stats data (keep it private).
-  Added `index.js` and `index.d.ts` for middleware
-  Added middleware to `expressAppTypeorm`
-  Added member to zpage output for result of `getRequestStats()`
-  Unit tests pass

Testing by running the application looks good. The response count for the `healthz` route is always one less than the number of calls because the response count doesn't increment until after the route gets the data to return. This makes sense and, as long as folks understand that, shouldn't be an issue. Example output below.

```json
{
	"startTime": "2022-10-28T14:55:12.485Z",
	"upTime": 180.221530886,
	"resourceUse": {
		"userCPUTime": 12149304,
		"systemCPUTime": 574900,
		"maxRSS": 333064,
		"sharedMemorySize": 0,
		"unsharedDataSize": 0,
		"unsharedStackSize": 0,
		"minorPageFault": 96089,
		"majorPageFault": 29,
		"swappedOut": 0,
		"fsRead": 3520,
		"fsWrite": 3408,
		"ipcSent": 0,
		"ipcReceived": 0,
		"signalsCount": 0,
		"voluntaryContextSwitches": 2945,
		"involuntaryContextSwitches": 3071
	},
	"calledServices": {
		"TypeORM": {
			"state": "HalfOpen",
			"successCount": 8,
			"lifetimeSuccessCount": 8,
			"failureCount": 10,
			"lifetimeFailureCount": 0,
			"awaitIsAliveCount": 0,
			"lifetimeAwaitIsAliveCount": 0,
			"isConnected": true,
			"retryEventCount": 0
		},
		"AzureQueue": {
			"state": "HalfOpen",
			"successCount": 1,
			"lifetimeSuccessCount": 1,
			"failureCount": 1,
			"lifetimeFailureCount": 1,
			"awaitIsAliveCount": 0,
			"lifetimeAwaitIsAliveCount": 2,
			"isConnected": true,
			"retryEventCount": 0
		}
	},
	"requestStats": {
		"requestCount": 10,
		"responseCount": 9,
		"requestsByPath": {
			"GET_/api/zpages/healthz": 8,
			"POST_/api/backup-requests": 2
		},
		"responsesByStatus": {
			"GET_/api/zpages/healthz_200": 5,
			"POST_/api/backup-requests_401": 1,
			"POST_/api/backup-requests_202": 1,
			"GET_/api/zpages/healthz_401": 2
		}
	}
}
```

Change routing -- `addZpagesRoutes()` -> `getZpagesRouter()`, which returns an Express `Router` so I don't need to pass `app` to the routes. Remove `api` prefix from module

-  Unit tests pass
-  Running app still works

Change routing -- `addBackupRequestRoutes()` -> `getBackupRequestRouter()`

-  Unit tests pass
-  Running app still works

But, I see an issue. The keys for responses are missing the part of the route that comes from `app.use()`. It looks like `req.path` changes between `addRequest()` and `addResponse()`.

Based on some experiments (unit tests are great for fast checking this), `addResponse()` should use `req.base` (/api/zpages) plus `req.route.path` (healthz/:id? in my test where I added the optional id parameter). Using `req.route.path` ensures I get the generic path instead of a path with a specific id or query string, which would inflate the response stats.

But, if a route like `healthz` is called as `healthz/123`, `req.route` is undefined. Query strings don't cause this issue. So:

-  If `req.route` is defined, use `req.route.path`
-  If `req.route` is undefined, use `req.path` up to the last `/` (or end of string if no last `/`)
-  This strategy may cause stats to have incomplete paths for errors (/api/zpages/abc will be tracked as /api/zpages); if we need details, query logs for `statusCode = 404 and requestUrl begins with /api/zpages` and count by requestUrl

And now I see the same sort of problem with the request logs--including ids, etc. I don't see a reasonable solution for that because, at the time I log the request, I don't know if the route is valid. So, take out request path logging (only count total requests).

Looks like it's working as I want it to work.
