# Add dependency status

For `readyz`, if a critical dependency is unavailable, the application isn't ready to accept requests.

-  The database is the only critical dependency because we must be able to write the request to it

For `healthz`, report connectivity status of all dependencies (database, queue)

-  Don't bother testing auth service because
   -  If it gets this far, auth is almost certainly working
   -  Caching authN/authZ data means we may accept requests from some callers but not others, even if the auth service is unavailable now

Dependencies may vary based on infrastructure choices, so pass dependency checks to the build function.

## Add database check to readyz, return 500 if database isn't available

Pass an array of `readyz` dependencies containing an object `{ depName: string, depCheckFunction: () => Promise<Result<boolean, Error>>}`.

Iterate the array and call the functions. If any returns an error respond 500.

**COMMIT: FEAT: add dependency check to readyz so it can return 500 if any readiness dependency is not responding**

But is that a good choice?

If API consumers, k8s, etc., call `readyz` often, it could be spamming the services it depends on. Can I hook into circuit breakers?

If I know which circuit breakers matter for `readyz`, I can call `isConnected()` and get a plain boolean. That seems like a better choice.

-  Make the check function a simple boolean
-  In the `server` module, use the circuit breaker `isConnected()` functions as the check functions

That looks better and avoids async calls, which could take a (relatively) long time to run with reasonable timeouts.

The result may be wrong if the dependent service is up but the circuit breaker doesn't know yet. I think that's acceptable because retries on critical service dependencies should be reasonably short.

I think service dependencies will usually have a circuit breaker in place. If one doesn't, it requires a way to find service status that resolves to a non-async (non-Promise) boolean. So an object with a service status and a function to return the status.

**COMMIT: REFACTOR: use circuit breaker status instead of async service checks**

## Add service dependency checks to healthz

The `healthz` route will need to check all dependencies, not just the `readyz` dependencies. Pass it a separate array of dependencies.

In the route, `map()` the list to return an array of `[ depName, functionResult ]`, then use `Object.fromEntries()` to build the object for JSON.

## Testing notes

Testing against the running application, because authZ depends on the database, if the database is down, `readyz` returns a 403. By standard, if `readyz` returns any HTTP status >= 400, the service isn't ready, so this is okay.

`healthz` is returning okay even if the Azurite queue is down, so I need to look at `AzureQueue.isConnected()` and understand why.

-  `AzureQueue.isConnected()` is returning an err, so is the circuit breaker handling it wrong
-  cb is just returning based on status, but status is clearly Open because it's running the check alive loop
-  I think cb would benefit from a method that checks connectivity; default Open in constructor and call checker from constructor to init the status
-  cb behavior looks saner now, based on `console.log`, but `healthz` is still getting wrong result
-  I needed to `bind` the functions
-  cb is not handling statuses quite right because default switched from Closed to Open
   -  in constructor, init `_failureCount` to `_failureToOpenCount` so it's what `onSuccess()` and `onFailure` expect for Open

Service ready is working as expected. I think it would be better if `healthZ` included more info about the service.

-  Rename `getStatus` to `getStatusAsync` and add a `getStatusSync` that uses `isConnected` instead of `isAlive`, which is async
   -  Change cb tests that use `getStatus` to call `getStatusAsync`
-  Use `getStatusSync` as the status function; requires changes to the interface (return `unknown`)

Unit tests are failng

-  Circuit breaker tests are failing when checking expected state after init because state isn't Closed, it's Open
   -  Change default to HalfOpen
   -  Change `checkLiveness` to `openIfNotAlive`; if ok then HalfOpen else Open
   -  Change tests to expect HalfOpen instead of Open on init
-  Express controller test is failing because it needs the zpage deps
   -  Default to empty arrays

Unit tests are passing

Testing against the app shows nice results in `healthz`, but I think I want to add a couple of totals counters for success and failure in the circuit breaker.

-  `lifetimeSuccessCount` and `lifetimeFailureCount`
-  And `awaitIsAliveCount` and `lifetimeAwaitIsAliveCount`

Testing against app

-  Circuit breakers start in HalfOpen with expected values
-  After 10 successful calls, move to Closed
-  Stop Azurite queue; post
-  Retry events -> 1
-  After some time, await count -> 1 and increments slowly
-  Add a couple more events, retries -> 3
-  Turn on queue
-  Retries run, moves out of await, `healthz` results show both as 0

All looks good in terms of outputs and behavior for `healthz`. Finally, rename `calledServicesReady` to `calledServices` in `healthz` result because it's more than service readiness data. Adjust unit test that checks for the error service to match name change so it passes.

The `healthz` unit tests use boolean-returning status functions, so output doesn't match the real app, but the point of the test is that the function, whatever it is, returns something sane. Hooking into the circuit breakers adds overhead that doesn't really add value to the tests.

**COMMIT: FEAT: add service dependency checks to healthz; uses circuit breaker getStatusSync() to give detailed info on status; add more counters to the circuit breaker for status**
