# Use BullMQ to send messages between CheckAllowed and SendToInterface

I've spent a while figuring out `pm2`, which is important. I can probably spend a while polishing, but for now I'm going to move ahead with using BullMQ as a message/event bus instead of the in-memory solution so I can understand how to use it and split the components apart.

## Planning

How does the existing event bus work?

-  Aggregates call `addDomainEvent` in domain logic
-  `addDomainEvent` adds the event to the aggregate's list of events and adds the aggregate to the `DomainEventBus` for publish
-  The aggregate's repo's `save`, calls `DomainEventBus.publishEventsForAggregate` if the save succeeds
-  `publishEventsForAggregate` finds the aggregate in the array (by id), publishes all the events, clears the events on the aggregate and removes the aggregate from the array

I'd like to use a similar pattern, but maybe simplify it.

-  Do I need to register the aggregate with the DEB?
-  Or can `save` just call the `publish` method?
   -  What do I need to know to publish an event?
   -  Where is the `publish` method?

The existing event bus pushes the aggregate onto an array of aggregates that have pending events. I think the aggregate will disappear from the array when it's deallocated. So, if `save` fails or is never called for some reason, the memory should be freed--I think. If something updates the aggregate, the DEB has a reference to it, so will have the updated aggregate.

Then publish takes the aggregate id, finds the aggregate in the array and publishes it.

I'm not sure I see a lot of value in DEB keeping an array of aggregates, so I think it could be more efficient if it:

-  Skipped the "add to array"
-  `save` passed the aggregate to `publishEventsForAggregate` (or equivalent)
-  `publishEventsForAggregate` published the events and cleared them when done

To publish an event, I need the event.

-  With the DEB, the DEB knows all the event subscribers and can publish to them directly
-  With an external bus (BullMQ, etc.), I need to know the queue to which an event should be published

I could add the queue name to the event. A getter that returns a constant string sounds like a good option.

-  BullMQ and RabbitMQ call them queues, but Kafka calls them topics; use an infrastructure agnostic name
-  `get channelName = () => 'queue-or-topic-name`

I think I'll be able to remove `getId()` from events too. The event's data content should be a contract, so the subscriber should know how to get the id from the event data. The only place `getId()` is necessary is in `DelayedEventRunner`, where we use ids to avoid duplicate events. An external queue solution doesn't require DER, so it will go away.

-  Today, startup recovery uses DER to play events out slowly so it doesn't swamp the system
-  Startup recovery can manage that itself by putting delays in the publish loop
   -  Only "create" needs startup recovery
   -  Run startup recovery in a separate service
   -  When a "create" instance restarts, it can tell the startup recovery process to run (`pm2.trigger` or maybe `process.send` or similar)
   -  Options to consider
      -  Ignore run requests if already running; issue: 1 restarts and calls recovery, 2 restarts -- needs recovery
      -  Ignore run requests < x seconds after last; similar issue
      -  Get time of call, wait 30 seconds (could that reduce risk of picking up requests in flight)
      -  On run request, apply concepts from DER with a few changes
         -  If recovery is running pause it
         -  Get ids from database
         -  Add to recovery events if no event already exists for the id and the id is not on the queue
         -  Start recovery running
         -  May want to modify this by make "run recovery" an internal delayed event

Another option is to make the HTTP receiver publish to a queue/topic, then create requests based on a "received request" queue/topic. This approach ensures the HTTP request either errors (400, 401, 403, 500 on write failure), ends up in the queue/topic (202) or times out. This seems like the best approach to completely resolve startup recovery concerns.

Which leads me to start from the front, not the back.

-  Build `ReceiveRequest` use case to accept an HTTP request and write it to the queue
-  Change the controller to use `ReceiveRequest`
-  Change `CreateRequest` to get data from the receive queue
-  Then change `CreateRequest` to publish to external queue and change `CheckAllowed` to get from create queue
-  Then change `CheckAllowed` to publish to external queue and change `SendToInterface` to get from allowed queue
-  Existing use cases will need to check status and, if it is a "go ahead" status the use case would assign, send events to the queues
   -  This implies sending messages to the queue is a function of the use case, not `save`

I'll still need to deal with the fact that I sometimes need to publish with DEB and sometimes not. Either determine that based on the event being published (does it have a `channelName`) or pass a flag to `addDomainEvent` to tell it if it should use DEB (default true). Both are temporary solutions until everything is moved over.
