# Build new events and KafkaJS adapter and message handler for first event

## Events

Events have getters for `messageKey()`, `messageData()` and `topicName()`. The constructor accepts an object and builds a message-ready form of it.

I'll build two events

-  `BackupRequestAccepted` (enqueue)
-  `BackupRequestReceived` (in database)

`BackupRequestAccepted` takes the base backup request from the enqueue use case. It should have the data from the response body.

```typescript
const responseBody = {
	backupRequestId: result.value.id.value,
	backupJobId: (backupJobId as UniqueIdentifier).value,
	dataDate: dt.toISOString().slice(0, 10), // only the date part
	preparedDataPathName: v.preparedDataPathName,
	statusTypeCode: v.statusTypeCode,
	receivedTimestamp: v.receivedTimestamp,
	requesterId: v.requesterId,
};
```

`BackupRequestReceived` only holds a `BackupRequestId`.

## Message handler for BackupRequestAccepted

The message handler will get a message that looks like the response body. It needs to call a new use case (`ReceiveBackupRequestUseCase`) that looks a lot like `CreateBackupRequestUseCase`. The message handler is like the subscriber `on...` method, so is responsible for any error handling and logging. It returns a value that indicates whether the message processed successfully, should be retried (dependency error), or is unprocessable.

```typescript
export const MessageHandlerResponseTypes = {
	Retry: 'retry',
	Reject: 'reject',
	Commit: 'commit',
} as const;
// as const prevents changing or adding values;

export type MessageHandlerResponseType = typeof MessageHandlerResponseTypes[keyof typeof MessageHandlerResponseTypes];

export const validMessageHandlerResponseTypes = Object.values(MessageHandlerResponseTypes);
```

## KafkaJS adapter

The adapter constructor takes client configuration data (figure out what after setup). It sets up a client, producer, and maybe a retry producer and connects the producer(s).

The `publish` method uses the producer to publish the event to the topic. It calls methods on the event to get data for the message and calls `producer.send()`.

The `subscribe` method creates a consumer (requires a consumer group) and subscribes it to the topic. It runs the message handler, with a default wrapper that, based on the results of the message handler, commits, reproduces for retry or logs a bad message. In the future, it may take a bad message handler that's responsible for doing whatever needs to be done with bad messages

## Notes

-  I'll prefix all the event names with "K" to avoid collisions until I get through all the changes
-  I created `common/event` and wrote `EventBus.ts`
   -  `IBusEvent` is the interface events implement; added a few methods
   -  `BusEventHandlerResult`, `BusEventHandlerResultType`, and `busEventHandlerResultTypeValues` are about the values a handler can return
   -  Rest may or may not go further depending on details of implementation TBD
-  Wrote `KBackupRequestAccepted` message
   -  Messages are carry data as an object and have object and string getters (are responsible for knowing how to serialize themselves)
-  Created `common/messaging` (not sure that's where this will live) and wrote `/KafkajsAdapter.ts` and `IMessageBusAdapter.ts`
   -  constructor
      -  Accepts KafkaJS's `KafkaConfig`; only uses some values, sets retry count to 100
      -  Creates client
      -  Creates producer; adds event listeners to track connection state; starts connect
   -  publish
      -  if producer isn't connected, try to connect; err if can't connect
      -  try to publish message; use a semi-smart serializer
      -  catch -> log and return err
      -  Need better errors for both possible err cases
   -  \_connectProducer
      -  tries to connect producer; logs on failure; returns boolean
-  Moved `EnqueueBackupRequestUseCase` to `AcceptBackupRequestUseCase` and adjusted
-  Copied `CreateBackupRequestuseCase` to `ReceiveBackupRequestUseCase` and adjusted
-  Wrote `KBackupRequestAcceptedMessageHandler.ts` (in `modules/backup-request/adapters`);
-  Wrote `KBackupRequestReceived` message

I want to put together a basic test of the parts

-  Test 1
   -  Write a consumer to read a topic and log messages (`consoleConsumer`)
   -  Write a producer using the adapter and the message to send a few messages (`1802-01Producer`)
   -  The producer is returning ok from the `publish` through the adapter
   -  Means the adapter is setting up the client and connecting okay
   -  The output from the consumer matches the message (data agrees; key makes sense)
   -  Except backupJobId is backupRequestId; wrong mapping in the message; fixed
-  Test 2
   -  Copy the message handler and give it a use case that `console.log`s arguments
   -  Change the consumer to use the console message handler
   -  Use `1802-01Producer` to produce events
   -  The message handler is logging to the console
   -  Means the message handler structure works as expected
   -  Also means the overall plan works as expected

These tests are basic tests, but they give confidence that the approach works and that continuing makes sense.

**COMMIT: REFACTOR: build starting components for Kafka-based messaging; confirm basics work (more testing to come)**

## Approaching testing

Testing with KafkaJS seems challenging. I can mock the module, but, consider how it works.

```typescript
import { Kafka } from 'kafkajs';

const kafka = new Kafka(...);
const producer = kafka.producer(...);
producer.connect();
producer.send(...);
```

If I `jest.mock('kafkajs')`, I mock the function that returns the producer, which makes it hard to get a producer. Also, KafkaJS uses events that matter in my adapter (producer connection status, `consumer.run()` depends on events), so any mock needs to generate events when calling `producer.connect()`, for example.

I don't want to depend on a Docker environment for testing. I want to be able to mock or simulate real behavior so my tests cover my adapters without restoring to full integration tests.

While looking in the parent GitHub account for `KafkaJS`, I found `tiny-kafka`, which bills itself as a fake Kafka for testing. It's a few years old, but I'll give it a try. If it doesn't work, I'll probably build most tests mocking adapter functions and figure out how to integration test the adapter.

Problem 1: It isn't on npm. So, I'll get it from GitHub and put it in `test-helpers` and add its dependencies as dev dependencies.

```json
  "dependencies": {
    "glob": "^7.1.2",
    "kafkajs": ">= 1.3.1 < 2.0.0",
    "uuid": "^3.3.2",
    "yargs": "^12.0.1"
  },
```

The code is lacking documentation, but the repo has an [example](https://github.com/tulios/tiny-kafka/blob/master/libraryTests/kafkajs/index.spec.js) that might be useful for figuring out if it works like I want it to work. Let's start with it and see it if works and go from there.

At a basic level, the admin and producer components work, but consumer has issues with `run`, which complains about `KafkaJSGroupCoordinatorNotFound`. So, `tiny-kafka` doesn't offer enough of the consumer API to satisify KafkaJS, which means I can't set up consumer and use the producer to generate messages.

So, how can I work around that sanely so I can test message handlers?

If `run` returned anything, I could return a function I could call to test the message handler, but it returns `Promise<void>`, so that won't work.

If I mock `run` to add the message handler to the consumer--but I can't add methods easily in TypeScript. But, I can mock `run` to assign a method to a message handler runner (`testRun`) declared in the test. Then I can call `testRun` and assert.

I have the basic `testRun` set up, but need to make it easier:

-  Build a factory to return a do-nothing version because eslint/TS can't detect that it will be assigned and complain (`initMockSend`)
   -  `let mockSend = initMockSend();`
-  Build a factory to return the mock `run`, then I can use the factory and avoid duplicating code (`mockRun(config, mockSend)`)
   -  Then `consumer.run = jest.fn().mockImplementation(async (config: ConsumerRunConfig) => mockRun(config, mockSend));`
-  Build a function to take a topic and a set of messages and build an `EachBatchPayload` with dummy methods as needed
   -  `commitOffsetsIfNecessary`, `heartbeat`, `isRunning`, `isStale`,`resolveOffset`, `uncommittedOffsets`
   -  in batch member, `firstOffset`, `highWatermark`, `isEmpty`, `lastOffset`, `offsetLag`, `offsetLagLow`, `topic`, `partition`, `messages`
   -  allow passing a config to replace defaults
   -  `mockSend(makeBatchPayload({ topic: topicName, messages: [ msg1, msg2, ...]}));`

Then, I think I'll be able to use `tiny-kafka` plus the helpers above to test. I've done a basic version of this and see it doing what I expect. It has some room for improvement (string -> Buffer in a few places), but it looks like I can make this testable.

## NEXT

-  Define errors for message bus adapter
-  Figure out how to test with KafkaJS and fix tests
   -  May need to build a fake of some kind to deal with connect and other behavior
-  Ensure both new use cases are covered in tests and properly tested (red, green)
-  Add retry information to messages so I can manage retries
-  Add subscribe method to adapter
-  Ensure topics are created with partitions (new adapter method)
-  Determine how to detect connectivity errors in the message handler and respond

   -  Can I build in connectivity checks to avoid useless runs?

-  Write an integration test with jest that
   -  Sets up a components and spies on key methods
   -  Runs the accept use case
   -  Asserts
      -  publish is called the correct number of times
      -  message handler runs
      -  the receive use case runs
      -  save is called (mock database adapter save to return ok)
-  Run the console consumer on the second topic and see message

## Decisions

Looking at how Kafka works, and especially how retry works, I've decided to save Kafka for external communication only. I'll leave this branch so the information and ideas here are available. Some of what I built here may port over to BullMQ.

Added `tiny-kafka` directory to `.gitignore`.

**COMMIT: DOCS: set Kafka aside for now**
