# Improvements and cleanup

## Dates
[x] Make date getters consistent everywhere.
Added `dateOrUndefinedAsDate()` to get a date or undefined.

[x] Places where I convert a date to a string may get an invalid date string. What to do about that?
Added checks to `dateOrUndefinedAsDate()` to ensure string values are valid dates.

[x] add tests for `dateOrUndefinedAsDate()`

## Type values
I'd like to move away from hardcoded string values for type values, but I see a lot of "avoid enums" arguments.

I need to export an object from the types so I can use `typeObject.typeValue` and avoid the risk of changing values.

I think I can export the object in each of my types, just need to come up with a naming convention.

[x] Replace hardcoded constants with references to "enum" objects.

**COMMIT - 3.1.6.1 - REFACTOR: date checking; avoid hardcoded strings for type values**

## Ensure no backward status moves
A request starts in received status.
It moves to a checked status (allowed or not allowed). It cannot move back to received.
It moves to sent status (if allowed). I cannot move back to received or checked.
It moves to replied status (succeeded or failed). It cannot move to any other status.

To move to a following status, the request must be in the appropriate previous status.

Question to consider: Should I allow it to move forward if it is in the wrong previous status?
For example, if I get a reply for a request that says it isn't sent yet, should I assume I had a failure updating the status after sending?

Thought: If the first step of startup recovery is processing any messages from the backup interface, then probably.

[x] When checking for allowed (already had this)
  * If the request is already checked, sent, or replied, skip it (as ok, but log info).
  * The request must be received (or it has a bad status).
[x] When sending to the backup interface (added check for replied)
  * If the request is already sent or replied, skip it (as ok, but log info).
  * The request must be allowed.
[x] When receiving a reply from the backup interface
  * If the request is already replied, skip it (as ok, but log info).
  * The request may be any other status.

**COMMIT: 3.1.6.2 - ADD: checks to prevent backward status moves**

## Rename create-backup-record
I decided `create-backup-record` should be `receive-reply-something`.

But maybe backup records are a separate module because they're used for delete too. If that's true, then CBR moves to a new module (`backup-journal`???). How does that affect reply handling, which now spans `backup-request` and `backup-journal`? I think that puts us into domain service territory, so need to read up on that a bit more.

I don't want to manage the receive reply process with events because the backup journal update must succeed before updating the request status. Leave the request open if we can't update the journal. Either we have a database down (handle with fault tolerance) or we have a bad reply (log it).

Does backup request need a status to say it got a reply but it was bad? (Seems unlikely to happen if we test our interfaces. The backup interface is code and isn't likely to break the interface after we have it working. How much time and code to invest it covering this case for now?)

Also, the journal and request updates are a sort of distributed transaction. If journal updates but request fails to update, log it so we can track it, but don't rollback the journal update.

**Checklist revised further down, but keeping for notes**
[] create `src/backup`
   * Part of me dislikes bare "backup" (the data backed up vs. information about the backup). But the fact is, this is the logical representation of the backup. It is how we know the backup exists and where the backup is stored. Without this, the system has no knowledge of the backup. So, in the interest of not adding meaningless words, I'm calling it "backup." I'll start referring to it as `Backup` to avoid confusion with the data backed up.
[] move `Backup.ts` and directly related files to `src/backup`
[] build the domain service to handle the reply
   * Which domain gets the domain service?
   * We're getting a reply from the backup interface through some communication channel (HTTP, event/message, etc.). Upon receiving, we need to create the `Backup` and update the `BackupRequest`. We want to put the `BackupRequestId` on the `Backup` for traceability (assumption: we purge request history after X days but keep `Backup`s until they're removed from backup storage).

I need to think about this a bit. I should pull `BackupJob` out too--maybe? I'll need it in other places. I see some reorganization coming here that's bigger than what I outlined.

**NEXT DAY**
I prefer to think of create, delete, restore, and access (exposing data in an API for a UI) as potentially separate services that care about backups.

* Create and delete also care about backup jobs, but don't maintain them. `BackupJob` should be an entity or validated DTO only.
* Create, delete, and restore each care about their activity tracking logs, but the logs are different for each.
* Restore maintains a list of restored copies of backups and their location. Delete includes restored backup copies in delete commands to the backup storage interface and notifies restore when the backup is confirmed deleted, but they're ready only for delete.

Where would DDD and clean architecture lead given the idea that all areas care about one aggregate, but each is otherwise independent? Maybe they'd say that aggregate is the important thing.

Let's say the domain is "backups" and we have a core aggregate `Backup`. And we have a group of use cases and types that depend on `BackupRequest`, another group based on `DeleteRequest`, and a third group based on `RestoreRequest`.

That leads to the idea of a `BackupRequestService` and a `DeleteRequestService` that manage transaction coordination between their aggregates and `Backup`. I believe the services belong to the requests because the transactions are related to and driven by status changes on the requests. From a maintenance perspective, updating the backup request behavior may affect the create transaction but is unlikely to affect the delete transaction and vice versa. Keeping the transactions with their requests also makes splitting the code into different (micro)services practical.

So how does that affect code organization?
* `Backup` and a few other things (`BackupJob`, types) need to be available to the requests.
* I'd like to separate the requests from each other to make understanding which use cases apply to which easier to understand.
* `Backup` will need use cases to support access.

Looking at Stemmler, his `ddd-forum` has users (separate module) and, with in the forum module, members. The `CreateMember` use case fires off an event and starts by getting a user from the user repo.

So...
* Build modules around the main aggregates.
* Put all the aggregate specific bits (events, use cases, types, etc.) in the appropriate module.
* Build the services for aggregates that need them.
* It's okay for ModB to read ModA's aggregate to support actions. Any transactions that span modules should get a service.
  * If ModB needs to update ModA and doesn't require a transaction, I'll figure it out when I see it.

Which is where I was going before.

[x] Create `src/backup` and to move `BackupRepo.ts`, `Backup.ts`, `backupRepoFactory.ts` to it.
[x] Rename `create-backup-record` to `receive-create-backup-reply`. Rename contents accordingly.
[x] Move `BackupProviderType.ts` to `backup` and make backup provider on `Backup` the right type.
[x] Fix broken tests.
[x] Make `BackupJob` an entity (currently an aggregate) and move it and related bits to `src/backup`.
   * This move makes sense because some of the access features mean `Backup` will care about `BackupJob`.
   * Or, make it a DTO, but make the adapter do data quality checks--but that seems like domain not interface.
~~[] Move backup create logic from `ReceiveCreateBackupReplyUseCase` to service. (How to split up the logic?)~~

Should logic for "is backup job allowed to run" remain in backup request (only place that cares about it) or move to backup job in backup module?
* Which makes more sense from a maintenance and finding it perspective?

What if receive reply -> event -> create backup -> event -> complete request?
* Receive reply = check status, check request exists, (NEW) record reply status -> event
* Create backup = get request for event, create backup, save backup -> event
* Complete request = get request for event, set BackupCreated (new status), save

That feels ugly. Where do I store the information from the reply DTO that create backup needs? If I put it on the backup request, I might as well merge the request and the backup aggregates. The two are logically distinct (an in flight or failed request is not a backup).

After some further reading, I think I'll leave the logic in the receive reply use case. From a more "clean architecture" leaning view, where domain services are less of a thing, and given that DDD doesn't define domain services well, and from a maintenance and reasoning perspective, I think that makes sense if I can ensure I don't drag any logic from `Backup` into the use case. As long as I ensure the repository operations are adjacent to each other to reduce risk of inconsistency, I'm at least 5 9s good.
* https://medium.com/@gushakov/clean-domain-driven-design-2236f5430a05
* https://medium.com/swlh/the-domain-driven-designs-missing-pattern-319bf16dad91
* https://pusher.com/tutorials/clean-architecture-introduction/

Other: This article had some nice diagrams https://crosp.net/blog/software-architecture/clean-architecture-part-2-the-clean-architecture/

[x] Move `isBackupJobAllowed()` from `CheckRequestAllowedUseCase.ts` to `BackupJob`.
[x] Ensure saves are adjacent in `ReceiveCreateBackupReplyUseCase`.
   * I did this by moving the backup request data change above the backup create, which is okay if I don't save until after the backup save.

**COMMIT 3.1.6.3 - REFACTOR: backup module out of backup-request**