# Get check request allowed use case working

## First steps
[] Start request backup use case in `create-backup/check-request-allowed`
[] Created a DTO the same place. 
[] Write test for use case -- when executed, the result isRight() (write use case to fail)
[] confirm test fails
[] Change use case to return a right() and test passes.

**COMMIT: 3.1.3.1 - stub out use case and first test**

## Planning and testing notes
This use case needs a backupRequest. It is separate from the create request use case because we need to handle allowed checks differently for HTTP vs. queue transports. Also, the startup recovery process will look for any requested but not checked backup requests and check them.

The plan is:
* HTTP controller will call the use case directly and wait for a response so it can reply with a 400 if not allowed. Timeout = 408.
* Queue controller will trigger the use case with an event handler call and continue (doesn't care about the response).
* Use case will update the backup request's status, checked timestamp, and other data it gets that the backup request needs filled in. If allowed, it will trigger an event that runs the send to interface use case.

I don't need an actual repo yet because the use case will always get data from the main create backup controller, which gets it from the create request use case or from a startup recovery process that has a list of backup requests from the repo.

While this is the second step in the process, I'm writing it third because it depends on the send to interface use case.