# Receive reply from the backup interface

## Planning and testing notes
The backup interface sends a status message to tell the backup controller if it succeeded or not. If it succeeded, it will provide some data about the successful backup move operation.

For reliability purposes, this probably uses some kind of message solution with guaranteed delivery, but we might accept statuses over HTTP if that was considered reliable enough.

When the backup controller receives a status message, if it was successful, it will write data about the backup to persistence (master list of backups) and set the request status to Succeeded. If it fails, set the request status to Failed and include error reason information on the backup request.

### What data do we want about a successful backup
* Backup request id -- string UUIDv4 -- so we can relate it to a request for tracking
* Backup storage location -- string -- where is the managed backup stored in the managed backup space (path, etc.)
* Status -- string -- Succeeded or Failed
* Backup size -- number -- in bytes
* Copy start timestamp -- Date -- when did the backup interface start the backup data copy process
* Copy end timestamp -- Date -- when did the copy process finish (succeeded or failed)
* Verify start timestamp -- Date -- when did the backup interface start checking the backup data to ensure it matched the original -- may be null
* Verify end timestamp -- Date -- when did the verify process finish (succeeded failed) -- may be null
* Verified hash -- string -- hash value used to verify integrity of the backup (backup interface decides what method it uses)

This gets us a `BackupStatus` entity. The backup controller won't store or own it (will store parts of it in the master backup list). I don't think it needs to be an aggregate. Likewise, `BackupJob` isn't local and probably doesn't need an aggregate.

List above doesn't include data we'd get from the backup job (owner id, backup frequency, how long to keep, backup job id, etc.).


## First steps
[x] Start use case in `create-backup/use-cases/receive-status-reply`
[x] Create a DTO in the same place.
[x] Create `BackupResult` entity

### Questions
* Do I really need an entity for the backup result? Or should I just use the DTO to build the backup props and let `Backup` handle validation?
* Should this use case be `create-backup-record`?
* Should the result be the `Backup` or should it be `Backup` + `BackupRequest`? (Does it matter? Do we see the data being used anywhere?)

After some time away and thinking, yes, all that makes much more sense.

[x] Rename use case `create-backup-record` -- while it's `Backup` I'm adding "record" to be clear about what it's doing
[x] Rename `BackupResult` to `Backup` -- adjust so it isn't broken, but leave full build until later
[x] Result should be `Backup`, though I doubt it will be called in a way that uses it.

### Continuing

[x] Write test for use case -- when executed, the result isRight() (write use case to fail).
[x] Confirm test fails.
[x] Change use case to return a `right()` and test passes.

**COMMIT: 3.1.5.1 - add use case and initial test**

## Get remaining data for use case
We need to create a `Backup` to store the record of the backup in the master list of backups. We need the backup request and the backup job because we'll use data from both on the backup record.

[x] Get the backup request first because we can't anything if it doesn't exist.
[] Get the backup job (it must exist if we got this far).
[] Create the backup record (finish what's already started).

### Questions
* Is there some kind of key we could look at to recognize that a backup result is for the same backup?
  * Maybe the storage location is the answer.
  * If so, then confirm it doesn't already exist so we don't create a new one if we don't need to.
  * May require a new method on the `IBackupRepo`.

### Continue

[x] test: when the backup request doesn't exist, it fails
[x] test: when the backup job doesn't exist, it fails

### Backup record data
The missing required fields test requires a more complete `Backup` aggregate. What data do we need?
* Backup result -> all except verify data (verify optional, include if provided)
* Backup request -> data date, storage provider, backup job id
* Backup job -> days to keep
* Optional -> hold flag, delete date


This item became an issue--TS doesn't like attempting conversion with a possibly undefined value.
[x] Handle optional dates better in getters. Currently returning `new Date(props.value)`, but that could be wrong if the value is undefined.

[x] fix `CheckRequestAllowedUseCase.spec.ts` was failing because it needed `holdFlag` on `backupJobDTO`

**COMMIT: 3.1.5.2 - add Backup data; tests for related objects don't exist**

### Continue

[x] test: when the backup result DTO is missing any required attribute, it fails

Required attributes for backup result DTO that affect Backup
```typescript
   backupRequestId: string,   // -> UniqueIdentifier (UUIDv4)
   storagePathName: string,
   backupByteCount: number,  
   copyStartTimestamp: string   // Date
   copyEndTimestamp: string     // Date
```

**COMMIT: 3.1.5.3 - add Backup DTO input data checks; tests**

[x] test: when result type is invalid, it fails
[x] test: when the result is Failed, it saves the request but not a backup record
[x] test: when the backup request and job exist and result is good, it saves a backup (spy)

When `resultType` is failed, we won't create a backup record, so use case name should be `receive-status-reply`
* if `replyType` is not succeeded or failed, error
* get request
* if succeed create backup record, save backup record
* set request status to `replyType`, save request
* return left invalid `replyType`, left??? request (failure), or right backup record ???
  * If we can't find the request or job, it may be due to an infrastructure failure we can heal with a circuit breaker, so we'd retry later.
  * If we find the request and job, but the backup store operation failed, we update the request and close it out, so don't retry later.

[x] Add optional message to the reply. Add to request when updating status.

**COMMIT: 3.1.5.4 - ADD: replyType checks; update request / save backup; tests**
