# Add aggregate and events for create

## Add common domain objects
[x] AggregateRoot
[x] IDomainEvent
[x] IDomainEventHandler
[x] DomainEventBus

## Change BackupRequest to AggregateRoot
[x] extends AggregateRoot
[x] fix whatever breaks

## Add event for backup request created
[x] Rename `create-backup` to `backup-request`; resolve any issues
[x] Add domain event to aggregate from use case
[x] test: AggregateRoot reports event created

**COMMIT: 3.1.3.1 - change BackupRequest to aggregate and add event on create**

## Add event handler for backup request created
[] Add event handler (`backup-request/domain`)
[] Cause events to dispatch

### Event dispatch
Stemmler uses Sequelize hooks to trigger event processing (in `src/shared/infra/database/sequelize/hooks/index.ts` -> `src/common/infrastructure/somewhere`). I see other examples where the repository `save()` triggers event publish after calling the infrastructure `save()`. I like this better because it's simpler to understand and doesn't rely on infrastructure behavior.

I'm not writing the infrastructure yet, but want to be able to run a test that shows create -> check allowed -> send to interface working. To do that, I need a way to trigger events. 

I can write a test that runs create, then runs dispatch on the resulting aggregate to trigger check allowed, but how do I get results for check allowed so I can see it works? And then chain to send and see it works too (requires getting the check allowed result and dispatching the aggregate again)?

Also, each step will need a repo that returns the previous step's data. IDomainEvent includes the aggregate, so I could add a method that returns the aggregate, not just the id, for testing purposes. Or I could beef up the test repo to include data. Can I get it to trigger events?
  * Add a `data` member to the object
  * `save()` finds the data member by id and updates or inserts if it doesn't exist; also dispatches events (`DomainEventBus.dispatchEventsForAggregate(id)`)
  * If no `getByIdResult`, `getById()` finds the data member by id and returns a copy or throws
I think that's all I need maybe?

This is more an integration test, but it is about the business logic choreography, so I want to run it to see the flow working.

I may need to log output, so this work may lead to a logger. That needs to happen soon anyway, before I get too much stuff needing logging.