# Controllers

## Numbering change
I'm making file numbering more like semver.
* Major features will be new major numbers.
* Parts of features will be new minor numbers.
* Commits will be patch numbers.
* Notes files will be at the minor number level.
* x.0 is for initial planning.

Example:
* 4.1-CreateBackupRequestController.md
  * **COMMIT: 4.1.1 - blah blah blah**
  * **COMMIT: 4.1.2 - blah blah blah**
* 4.2-ReceiveCreateBackupReply.md
  * **COMMIT: 4.2.1 - blah blah blah**
  * **COMMIT: 4.2.2 - blah blah blah**

If I were more than one person, the minor numbers would represent branches.

I'll seek to commit more often than previous work.

## Plan

### 4.1 Figure out `fastify`
Create `src/learn-fastify` as a working directory to make it easy to remove later.

Roughly align to clean architecture approach
* Handler logic "use case" functions (but no entities/aggregates)
* Route controller calls handler

Questions:
* How do I write an HTTP API in `fastify`
  * Get hello world working
  * Add an endpoint with a URL parameter
  * Add an endpoint with that takes a body
* How do I manage routes
  * Separate routes for test api
  * Look at how Stemmler organized his routes and use case calls and if it can align with `fastify`'s model.
* How do I use logging

### 4.2 CreateBackupRequestController
* 4.2.1 - Rename `create-request` and `CreateRequest*.ts` to `create-backup-request` and `CreateBackupRequest*.ts`
* 4.2.2 - Can I write tests for the controller? Can they replace the tests for the use cases?
  * If can write tests, do so. Adjust tests as needed.
* 4.2.3 - Write the controller

### 4.3 ReceiveCreateBackupReplyController


### Other notes
I don't think I need controllers for `check-request-allowed` and `send-request-to-interface` because they're called from events. If I add a feature to recheck a `NotAllowed` request, I will need a controller for `check-request-allowed`. If an `Allowed` request doesn't get sent, I may need a way to trigger the restart behavior for `send-request-to-interface`.