# Figure out `fastify`


Controllers connect the application code to the web framework, so are affected by it. So, I want to have a basic understanding of the framework before working on them.

(My other choice would by `hapi`.)

## Plan A
Create `src/zz-learn-fastify` as a working directory to make it easy to remove later. (`zz` to put it at the bottom of `src` tree.)

Roughly align to clean architecture approach
* Handler logic "use case" functions (but no entities/aggregates)
* Route controller calls handler

Questions:
* How do I write an HTTP API in `fastify`
  * Get hello world working
  * Add an endpoint with a URL parameter
  * Add an endpoint with that takes a body
* How do I manage routes
  * Separate routes for test api
  * Look at how Stemmler organized his routes and use case calls and if it can align with `fastify`'s model.
* How do I use logging
* How does the JSON schema stuff work?

## How do I write an HTTP API in `fastify`?

### Get hello world working
References
* https://www.fastify.io/docs/latest/Guides/Getting-Started/
* https://github.com/matschik/fastify-typescript-starter

Official documentation on using `fastify` with TypeScript is scant. The GitHub repo in the references gives an example of using types. Also `import { ... } from 'fastify';` gives a list of importable types if I start typing `Fastify` in the brackets, so can help figure out what's available.

I'll continue with it for now, but this may make me lean toward `hapi`, which has better TS documentation and seems to have a bit more support.

```typescript
import { FastifyRequest, FastifyReply, fastify } from 'fastify';

const server = fastify({
   logger: true
});

server.get('/', async (request: FastifyRequest, reply: FastifyReply) => {
   server.log.info('hello world');
   return { hello: 'world' };
});

const start = async() => {
   try {
      server.log.info('starting server on port 3000');
      await server.listen(3000);
   } catch (err) {
      server.log.error(err);
      process.exit(1);
   }
};

start();
```

Okay. That works.

**COMMIT: 4.1.1 - ADD: hello world in fastify**

### Move routes into a separate module
Based on references and VS Code hints, I end up with

```typescript
// routes.ts
import { FastifyInstance, FastifyPluginOptions, FastifyReply, FastifyRequest } from 'fastify';

export async function routes(server: FastifyInstance, options: FastifyPluginOptions) {
   server.log.info(`called routes with options ${JSON.stringify(options)}`);
   server.get('/', async (request: FastifyRequest, reply: FastifyReply) => {
      server.log.info('hello world');
      return { hello: 'world' };
   });
}
```

```typescript
// index.ts
import { fastify } from 'fastify';
import { routes } from './routes';

const server = fastify({
   logger: true
});

server.register(routes);

server.log.info('starting server on port 3000');
server.listen(3000, (err, address) => {
   if (err) {
      server.log.error(err);
      process.exit(1);
   }
});
```

Interesting issue here. The `server.listen()` call matches a signature VS Code reports `(port: number | string, (err: Error, address: string): void => void)`, but when I compile, I get an error that the compiler can't find the signature. Not sure what's going on there, but I'm leaving it untyped for now.

I can use `address: string` and it compiles, but `err: Error` fails (with or without type on `address`). The `address` parameter seems to be optional.

Ah, the compiler error says `err: Error | null`. Using that type works. So the signature in VS Code is missing information.

So, it works now.

**COMMIT: 4.1.2 - REFACTOR: Routes in a separate module**

### Add an endpoint with a URL parameter
Let's make a `square` endpoint that takes a number as a URL parameter.
Return a JSON object like `{ param: number, square: number }`.

```typescript
// added to routes.ts

   server.get('/square/:x', async (request: FastifyRequest, reply: FastifyReply) => {
      // params is type unknown, which makes sense, so declare local type and use it
      type ParamsType = {
         x: number
      };

      const x = (<ParamsType>request.params).x;

      server.log.info(`square called with ${x}`);

      return { param: x, square: x*x };
   });
```

The framework has no way to know parameter types at this point, so `request.params` is type `unknown`. Each route with parameters will need to declare the type for `params` and tell TypeScript `request.params` is that type so it can reference members.

**COMMIT: 4.1.3 - ADD: route for square/:x**

## Apply clean architecture to hello world route
[x] Create use case (use `UseCase` from `common`) - not bothering with an entity/aggregate because this can prove it works
[x] Create controller for hello world route (use an interface because I don't have a controller class yet)
[x] Change route to instantiate use case and controller and call controller

It's hanging. So, let's add some logging to find what's breaking.
* Getting through the code, but it looks like I'm handling the reply wrong.
* Need to call `reply.send(<body>)` and not return reply.
* Don't need to return anything from the controller the way this works. When the controller exits back to the route and the route exits, whatever is set up on `reply` will go back to the caller--it seems. Let's test with `square` next.

## Apply clean architecture to `square` route
[x] Create use case
[x] Create controller
[x] Change route

In the controller, I was trying to take a shortcut on `request.params`, but TypeScript doesn't like it. Then I realized I was already good with my DTO interface to force the type.

And it's working. Testing with Insomnia shows Insomnia detecting 200 OK and 400 Bad Request responses, so this is good.

**COMMIT: 4.1.4 - REFACTOR: use style more like linebacker--controllers, use cases**

## Add an endpoint that takes a body
Let's say the body is `CreateRequestDTO` and the response will be a request id.

In fact, let's use `CreateRequestUseCase`. It needs an `IBackupRequestRepo`, but I can use the factory in `test-utils` for now.

The route will be `POST .../backup-request`. I'm leaving `apiVersion` in the DTO for now, but I think the controller uses it to map the body to the DTO it passes to the use case, so it will probably come out eventually. The controller will need to get the `apiVersion` and decide how to translate it in the future, but for now, we have one `apiVersion` so the controller will check it and not choose different mapping functions.

If I were writing tests:
* when it receives a request with an unknown `apiVersion`, it returns 400 Bad Request with an appropriate error

Remaining tests are for a known `apiVersion`
* when the use case returns an `Ok` result, it returns 200 with a request id body
* when the use case returns an `PropsError`, it returns 400 with the error
* when the use case returns an `Err` not `PropsError`, it returns 500 with the error

So, that's what the controller needs to do.

`fastify` uses schemas to validate the body, so I ended up with the schema below based on `CreateRequestDTO` minus a couple of values set in the controller.

```typescript
   const createBackupRequestBodySchema = {
      type: 'object',
      required: ['apiVersion', 'backupJobId', 'dataDate', 'backupDataLocation'],
      properties: {
         apiVersion: { type: 'string' }, // yyyy-mm-dd
         backupJobId: { type: 'string' }, // UUIDv4
         dataDate: { type: 'string' }, // yyyy-mm-dd
         backupDataLocation: { type: 'string' }
      }
   };

   const schema = {
      body: createBackupRequestBodySchema
   };

   server.post('/backup-request', { schema }, async (request: FastifyRequest, reply: FastifyReply) => {
      server.log.info('POST /backup-request', JSON.stringify(request.body));
      const repo = backupRequestRepoFactory();
      const useCase = new CreateRequestUseCase(repo);
      const controller = new CreateBackupRequestController(useCase);
      server.log.info('POST /backup-request calling controller.impl()');
      await controller.impl(request, reply);
   });
```

So, let's test it with Insomnia.
[x] when it receives a request with an unknown `apiVersion`, it returns 400 Bad Request with an appropriate error
   * Set `apiVersion` to `2022-05-01` when the controller wants `2022-05-22`
   * Received 400 with message `missing or invalid apiVersion 2022-05-01`

[x] when the use case returns an `Ok` result, it returns 200 with a request id body
   * Changed `apiVersion` to `2022-05-22`
   * Received object below but stringified with escaped quotes.

```javascript
{
   backupJobId: Object { _value: "3a3245df-8a45-483f-9a4c-7939c81f8501" }
   backupProviderCode: ""
   dataDate: "2022-05-25T00:00:00.000Z"
   getOnStartFlag: true
   id: "99dc4262-5906-44b8-958c-81991fdef683"
   preparedDataPathName: "/my/backup/location"
   receivedTimestamp: "2022-05-22T14:03:50.410Z"
   requesterId: ""
   statusTypeCode: "Received"
   storagePathName: ""
   transportTypeCode: "HTTP"
}
```
   * Changed controller to get a better response

```javascript
{
	"backupRequestId": "9875c1f2-35e4-4b0d-b6ac-1e700fb65d3c",
	"backupJobId": "3a3245df-8a45-483f-9a4c-7939c81f8501",
	"dataDate": "2022-05-25",
	"preparedDatePathName": "/my/backup/location",
	"statusTypeCode": "Received",
	"receivedTimestamp": "2022-05-22T14:26:36.462Z",
	"requesterId": ""
}
```

[x] when the use case returns an `PropsError`, it returns 400 with the error
   * Set `dataDate` to `invalid` and received a 400 with body below

```javascript
{
	"statusCode": 400,
	"error": "Bad Request",
	"message": "{ message: 'not a valid date ; dataDate |invalid|'}"
}
```

[x] when the use case returns an `Err` not `PropsError`, it returns 500 with the error
   * The only way this can happen is if the repo fails to save, which doesn't happen.
   * So I added a parameter to the fake-repo factory `failSave?: boolean` that lets me force a failure.
   * Changed controller to force a save failure (factory with `failSave: true`).
   * Sent a good body and received 500 with body below.

```javascript
{
	"statusCode": 500,
	"error": "Internal Server Error",
	"message": "BackupRequestRepo failSave true"
}
```

**COMMIT: 4.1.5 - ADD: route + controller for POST /backup-request**