# Add `FastifyBackupRequestController`

## Plan
* 6.1.1 - `FastifyCreateBackupRequestController` (rename).
   * Figure out how to test for `InvalidApiVersionError`.
   * Add tests for other test conditions
      * Invalid properties get `PropsError` (how many props to test?)
      * Other use case failures get ServerError and the enclosed error is the proper type.
      * If all is good, get the expected reply value
   * Can (should) I replace some or all use case tests with controller tests?

**COMMIT 6.1.1 - REFACTOR: Rename `CreateBackupRequestFastifyController` to align with infra-first naming pattern used for Prisma repos**

## Use Prisma repo in test
* Add Prisma imports
* Remove `IBackupRequestRepo` import
* Add `let` and `beforeEach()` setup
* Create repo, use case, controller

Doesn't fail tests, but isn't testing anything yet. But getting the test working needs several steps.

**COMMIT 6.1.2 - TEST: Set up controller test to use Prisma repo**

## Set up routes
In 4.2, I looked a how Stemmler and Bazaglia set up routes. I decided to create a single route file for each application module (backup-request, being the one in scope for now). The list below, from 4.2, seems good.

[x] Add `backup-request/infrastructure/http/fastifyRoutes.ts`
   * It should add a route to the controller.
   * Needs a `FastifyInstance` and `PrismaContext` so it can set up repos, use cases, controllers and add to the `FastifyInstance`
[x] Add `app.ts` in `src` based on `zz-learn-fastify/index.ts`
   * `server.ts` can wait until we're ready to test the server
[x] Create route for `POST backup-request` to call controller
   * Look at how Stemmler is managing routes
   * Look at [`fastify.route()`](https://www.fastify.io/docs/latest/Reference/Routes/#full-declaration)

I ran into some issues with types. VS Code says, `FastifyInstance`, `FastifyRequest`, and `FastifyReply` have a long list of generic types after then and isn't happy without them. Treating the result of `fastify(opts)` as a plain `FastifyInstance` isn't accepted. I'm not sure if that's a problem in the published types or something else going on.

I defined and exported types `RealFastifyInstance`, `RealFastifyRequest` and `RealFastifyReply` in `src/common/adapter/FastifyController.ts` (base controller) and used them everywhere in place of the base types.

After excluding `src/zz-learn-fastify` in `tsconfig.json`, everything compiles, which is as far as I can test it right now. (I'm keeping `src/zz-learn-fastify` in the repo for reference. Will remove later.)

For now, I'm not using `fastify.route()` or `app.route()` to add routes to the application. If I did, the route definition function would return an array of routes. `appBuild()` would combine all the route arrays and `forEach()` over it to call `app.route()` for each route. Also, be aware of possible type issues where the base type requires a list of generics after it to actually work.

**COMMIT: 6.1.3 - FEAT: create app setup function and route for CreateBackupRequestController**

## Get fastify into the test
According to the [testing guide](https://www.fastify.io/docs/latest/Guides/Testing/), I need to import `appBuild()` into the test, initialize the app and `await app.inject()`.

Reversed the parameters to `buildApp()` so `prismaCtx` is first because it is required, while `opts` is optional.

Here's the arrange and act code for the first test.

```typescript
   // Arrange
   const app = buildApp(prismaCtx);

   // Act
   const response = await app.inject({
      method: 'POST',
      url: '/backup-request',
      payload: {
         ...baseBody,
         apiVersion: 'invalid'
      }
   });
```

After about an hour of tracing, I figured out that `FastifyController` (base controller in `commmon`) was not returning the result of executing the controller, hence was getting no result back to the route. Added a `return` in front of the call to execute the controller and it worked.

Added logging to the route if the result is an error (`statusCode > 399`).

When testing errors, I need to check the body for a string matching the error message I expect. I thought the response body for an error would be an object, but the types say it's a string, so I can't reference `message`. I could try to `JSON.parse()`, but that will throw if the response isn't an object string. So, I wrapped it in a `try ... catch` with the `catch` forcing a test failure because this test expects an error, which means an object string.

Tested failure by commenting out `apiVersion: 'invalid'` in the `app.inject()` call. (Result was a good result, so test fails.)

**COMMIT: 6.1.4 - TEST: get the "invalid apiVersion" test failing and passing**

## Improve error messages returned from the API

I want error messages from the API to include an error type so I can reliably identify specific classes of errors.

If the error message is just a human readable message, I end up string parsing it to find keywords and hope I don't miss something. I don't want to expose potentially sensitive information like a stack trace, function name, file name, etc. I write the detailed error to the application log so I can trace it if needed.

Include the error's `name` property in the response. I think that's safe because:
* The error message provides a human readable form of the name.
* I put errors in a common "*Errors" for a given class of errors, so am not exposing a file name.
* The error name is a class name, but to compromise that, someone would need to inject it into the server memory. If someone can compromise server memory, they can probably get source 
* Including a class name in the response doesn't add more risk compared to publishing the code in a public GitHub repo. (I plan to publish this to GH eventually.)

### Research on error handling practices
* OWASP guidance seems to lean toward, "Don't tell them anything," though the actual statement is more like, "Don't tell them anything that might put your application at risk," without much detail about that beyond concepts like, stack traces, file names, database details, and other information that exposes possibly HTTP-able resources. OWASP seems to be most concerned about improperly handled errors returning those tyeps of details.
* Google's API docs suggest they provide detailed responses with lots of data about what went wrong and why.
* Facebook's API docs lists type, code, subcode, which are usually numeric.
* Azure's storage API docs list error codes (string) that provide more detail than an HTTP status code (BlobOverwritten, BlockCountExceedsLimit, etc., map to HTTP 409 Conflict; InvalidBlobTier, InvalidBlockId, InvalidOperation, etc., map to HTTP 400 Bad Request). Their error messages may identify query parameters vs. body vs. others, the specific incorrect parameter and its value and a reason.
* Amazon's storage API includes a text code, message, resource name ("/mybucket/myfoto.jpg" in the example, I'm assuming bucket is a required parameter to the call, so isn't exposing anything), and request id; this basic pattern seems to hold for other AWS services.

Example from Azure Storage API error discussion
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>  
<Error>  
  <Code>InvalidQueryParameterValue</Code>  
  <Message>Value for one of the query parameters specified in the request URI is invalid.</Message>  
  <QueryParameterName>popreceipt</QueryParameterName>  
  <QueryParameterValue>33537277-6a52-4a2b-b4eb-0f905051827b</QueryParameterValue>  
  <Reason>invalid receipt format</Reason>  
</Error> 
```

OWASP made me think my error messages are already too verbose, just return generic HTTP errors with no details. But looking at real world practice from major companies, I think including the error name is less of a problem. Also, OWASP and everyone talking about OWASP seem to focus on exposing stack traces, database details (in database error messages--so I need to check those), and similar application details.

### Let's do it
I want to include the error's name in the response. [Fastify docs](https://www.fastify.io/docs/latest/Reference/Reply/#errors) say I need an error schema defined for my route. I'll define a generic error schema for 400 and 500 errors in `src/common/infrastructure/http/fastifyRoutes.ts` and import that into my module's `fastifyRoutes` and include it on all routes.

Fastify uses `code` for their errors (on base server errors). OWASP probably wouldn't be happy because they expose the fact that the server is built on Fastify. But they don't put anything in `code` for application-generated errors, so I'll use it. Which might not require a custom schema.

Testing shows it won't require a custom schema, so that's the way to go. Making that change requires going to `BaseError` and adding `code` and in every descendant error setting `code`. Or maybe I can push that into `BaseError` (DRY). That works. Good. I also made `BaseError` strip "Error" from the end of `code` if the `name.toLower()` ends in `error`.

**COMMIT: 6.1.5 - REFACTOR: add a code member to errors to support automated error handling; gives more detail without exposing too much**

## Test for 500 error on database error and add code to return it
* when the use case has a database error, the controller returns 500 and an error
  * expect `reply.statusCode` 500
  * expect `result.error.code` to be `Database`

Prisma errors were perhaps a bit too informative. I changed `DatabaseError` to remove the first character (P) from the Prisma error code, which still gets the distinguishing part, or `'error'` if the message isn't JSON (`JSON.parse()` throws).

I might want the controller to handle logging so I get more useful detail in the log. The challenge being, the controller doesn't have a `FastifyInstance`, so can't log. I may need to handle this in the route so the route can get the detailed message, log it, then strip the details out of the message.

After some thought, I added a method to `DatabaseError` called `cleanMessage()`, which does the message cleanup described above. The route gets the full error so it can log it. If the error is a `DatabaseError` (based on `error.name`), the route calls `cleanMessage()` to reduce risk of leaking too much information.

While I'm focused on database errors here because they are a big leak risk, the code defaults to 500 error if no other handled error is the cause. (Doesn't handle others yet.)

**COMMIT: 6.1.6 - FEAT: controller returns 500 error for database errors and cleans the message to reduce risk of leaking information**

## Test for the `PropsError` and add code to handle it
* when the use case has a database error, the controller returns 500 and an error
  * expect `reply.statusCode` 400
  * expect `result.error.code` to be `Props`

That was my original plan, but someone might say, "Props" identifies a specific variable name. I want the controller to return a "BadData" error. BUT, I don't want to lose the other information from the `PropsError`, so instead of creating a new error type, change the `name` of the `PropsError` to "BadDataError".

Question: In the controller? Or in the route?  --  Probably best to do it in the controller so what's reported in the client's log matches the server logs.

Also, the controller only gets a few values from the API call, so can't fully test the underlying code. So I'll let the use case tests prove I get a `PropsError` when any value is bad and only test one value here to prove the controller handles the `PropsError` as expected.

Actually, I found I don't need to change the `name`, I need to change the `code`. `code` is a `readonly` property. So I removed `readonly` in `BaseError` to make `code` changeable. I also set `code` in `PropsError` so it will be consistent everwhere and so I don't need to worry about forgetting to change it somewhere.

**COMMIT - 6.1.7 - FEAT: controller returns 400 and a "BadData" error if the use case returns a PropsError** 

## Test for a good request and add code for it

* when the request is good, it returns 200 and response data
  * expect `reply.statusCode` 200
  * expect `result.value.requestId` to be a UUID
  * expect `result.value.statusTypeCode` to be `Received`
  * expect `result.value.receivedTimestamp` to be between `startTimestamp` and now