# Add a controller or similar for `ReceiveCreateBackupReplyUseCase` -- Partial update idempotence

## Plan
The high level design for the system wants to receive replies on a message queue of some kind. I'm using Azure storage queues and, specifically, Azurite, a local emulator for Azure storage. Other options include Kafka, RabbitMQ, NATS, or any of several other queue/message broker systems. The key requirement for any such system is that messages that the message processor doesn't delete from the queue reappear on the queue after a timeout, which allows the system to recover from cases where the message processor fails mid-processing.

This direction introduces a few considerations.

### Idempotence for partial database updates
* The use case will update two aggregates (`Backup` and `BackupRequest`), which means two database updates. I'm not planning to make those updates a single transaction.
* I will require `Backup` to complete before updating `BackupRequest`. A `BackupRequest` that succeeds isn't considered successful until the `Backup` exists in the database.
* If the `BackupRequest` update fails, the "controller" won't delete the message from the queue. The same message will return later. I need to handle duplicate messages sanely.
* So, the use case should check if a `Backup` already exists for the `backupRequestIdentifier`. If so, don't touch the `Backup` because it may have been updated by other processes after it was written. Consider the `Backup` save successful and go on to the `BackupRequest`.

### Idempotence for duplicate messages
* The use case's database updates could success, but the "controller" could fail to delete the message (connection failure or similar).
* The "partial database updates" situation keeps `Backup` safe.
* If `BackupRequest` is in a completed status, don't update it and consider it successful.
* In fact, maybe that should be a first check? Or should I allow for the possibility that some idiot will do a backend update to `BackupRequest` when the `Backup` isn't written? Probably. I know too many people who think backend updates are the solution to all problems, not recognizing that they're the cause of many problems. Let's idiot proof as much as we can.

### Polling vs. notification
   * Different queue/message broker systems work in different ways. Some require the client to poll the queue to get messages. Others allow the client to register a handler and call that handler (RPC, basically), or hide the polling nature of the interface in a function that polls behind the scenes.
   * Azure storage queues require the client to poll, so the "controller" will be a polling loop that calls the use case to handle any messages it receives. I have an Azure queue listener in another learning project I did, so will adapt it to `linebacker`. 
      * Previous work passes the message body as a string. For `linebacker`, I'll need to convert the string to the expected DTO.
      * Previous work puts messages that fail several times on a poison (Azure) queue. `linebacker` may log them instead.
   * In the future, I may try other queue options to learn about them.

## Next steps
* Ensure the use case handles idempotence for partial updates.
   * Test to simulate `Backup` exists and ensure the repo's `save()` isn't called.
* Ensure the use case handles idempotence for duplicate messages.
   * Test to simulate `Backup` exists and `BackupRequest` completed, neither `save()` is called, returns okay.
   * Test to simulate `Backup` does not exist and `BackupRequest` completed, `Backup` `save()` is called, `BackupRequest` `save()` is not called, returns okay.
* Adapt existing queue code to run the polling loop.
   * Review queue code and think about how to make it better. Managing the queue is somewhat complex.
   * Think about how to deal with no message on the queue. (Currently, code waits longer each time up to a max wait.)
   * Same polling loop with a different use case handler, so try to build a generic loop you can reuse in `common/infrastructure`.
   * Loop function should get a mapper function that converts the message string to the DTO and handles basic errors.
* Ensure the code deals with cannot connect to queue case.
   * I want something like a circuit breaker. What are my options?

## Idempotence for partial updates

I need the following tests for the `ReceiveCreateBackupReplyUseCase`
* `Backup` `save()` fails, `BackupRequest` `save()` isn't called and returns `Err`
* `Backup` `save()` succeeds but `BackupRequest` `save()` fails, returns `Err`
* Both `save()`s succeed, returns `Ok`
* `Backup` exists and `BackupRequest` isn't complete, `Backup` `save()` isn't called, `BackupRequest` `save()` is called (succeeds), returns `Ok`
* `Backup` exists and `BackupRequest` isn't complete, `Backup` `save()` isn't called, `BackupRequest` `save()` is called (fails), returns `Err`

And I need to ensure the use case passes these tests (after proving they can fail). All cases are for a successful result. Failed results shouldn't save a `Backup`.

I have a test that probably needs to be replaced because it says, "If the `BackupRequest` is completed, I should not update the `Backup`."
```typescript
test.each([
      RequestStatusTypeValues.Succeeded,
      RequestStatusTypeValues.Failed
   ])('when request is %p, it returns ok with unchanged status and timestamp'
```
This test isn't a problem for partial update idempotence, maybe, but is a problem for duplicate message idempotence.

I think the following test as written is a problem for partial update idempotence, because I could have a successful reply that updates `BackupRequest` only. This case requires updates to both.
```typescript
test('when result type is Succeeded, it saves the request and the backup record'
```
The tests described at the start of this section replace this test. Specifically, this test is more or less the third test in the list (both `save()`s succeed).

I'll start with the first case in the list (reply succeeded, `Backup` `save()` fails).

NOTE: To test a Prisma database operation failed, `mockRejectedValue()` as shown. Other Prisma error types might apply. See the [error reference](https://www.prisma.io/docs/reference/api-reference/error-reference):
```typescript
mockPrismaCtx.prisma.backup.upsert.mockRejectedValue(new PrismaClientKnownRequestError('Some upsert failure', prismaCode, '2'));
```

First run of the test is getting `result.isErr()` as false, so the test can fail. Now let's make the use case pass.

Instead of just calling `save()` and ignoring the result, check for an error and return it. Test passes.

Now, let's do `Backup` `save()` succeeds but `BackupRequest` `save()` fails. Here, `backupRequest.upsert.mockRejectedValue()` and `backup.upsert.mockResolvedValue({} as Backup)`. The `save()` function ignores `backup.upsert` success values, so `{}` works here.

The test fails because `result.isErr()` is false, as expected. Let's make the use case pass by checking the result of `save()` and return if `isErr()`.

Now, let's change the "when result type is Succeeded" test to be the third test.

I've decided to group tests with `describe()`s inside the main `describe()` because this use case will have a lot of tests. Grouping them makes it easier to see what's failing and helps reason about it by assigning it to a general category.

**COMMIT 6.2.1 - FEAT: support first 3 partial update idempotence requirements; tests, code**

Those tests and cases were important to handle first because I don't want the use case updating data in a way that might complicate idempotence. Passing them ensures updates happen in order (`Backup` must be written before `BackupRequest` is updated). I can't stop some idiot from doing a backend update that messes up `BackupRequest`, but I can ensure the code isn't that idiot. Also, by ensuring the order of updates, we won't end up with a supposedly successful `BackupRequest` with no corresponding `Backup` (barring the idiot). That state would be truly confusing for people looking at the data.

Restating what the tests need to cover -- key point, because `Backup` exists, neither calls `Backup` `save()`
* when the `Backup` exists, the `BackupRequest` is not complete, and the `BackupRequest` `save()` fails, it returns `Err` and does not call `Backup` `save()`
* when the `Backup` exists, the `BackupRequest` is not complete, and the `BackupRequest` `save()` succeeds, it returns `Ok` and does not call `Backup` `save()`

Can I do this with a `test.each()`? Maybe.
* Need to know if `BackupRequest` `save()` should succeed or fail.
* Need conditions in the test to choose `mockResolvedValue()` vs `mockRejectedValue()`
* Need conditions to handle `isOk()` and `isErr()` options.

It is doable, but conditions in a test that change it's behavior will be confusing (different from using conditions as type guards). So I'll write two similar tests. Start with the "save() fails" test.

The test will `mockResolvedValue()` for the `PrismaClient`'s `count()` to return a value, meaning the `Backup` exists. That choice tells me the use case will check to see if a `Backup` exists for the `backupRequestIdentifier`. The repo `exists()` method takes the id of the object. I don't know the `Backup`'s id, so need a different method that lets me check for existence by `backupRequestIdentifier`. I'll solve that when I get to the use case code.

Test is written. It is failing because it isn't returning an `Err`.

How do I want to handle the "exists based on condition" function?
* I could write specific functions for conditions that matter (`existsForBackupRequestId()`, `existsForBackupId()`, etc.)
* I could write a general function that takes an object and maps only members on it to the db context. Specifically, that's mostly getting id values.
* I could do that mapping in the use case.

Stemmler has repo functions like `getMemberByUserId()` that return data. That makes sense to me for now, so I'll go with it and write `getByBackupRequestId()`.

I need to use Prisma's `findFirst()` because Prisma doesn't know the `BackupRequest` should be unique on the `Backup`. Also, for this case, I don't care about the `Backup` contents, just that it exists.

Also, because I'm using `findFirst()`, I need to change my test to mock the result. I'll try a `{}` result. If that doesn't work, I'll define a mock `Backup` object.

Now, time to use that function in the use case.

Looking at the use case, I stop if the `BackupRequest` is complete (successful or failed). To allow for idiots, I'll remove this condition and consider the actual reply more valid. That change will should cause the `test.each()` for `'when request is %p, it returns ok with unchanged status and timestamp'` to become obsolete. (It will fail and I'll remove it.)

All the tests for the use case are failing because I've changed the flow of the use case.
* Data quality checks expecting a `PropsError` are getting a `DatabaseError`. The use case is calling the repo to get the `Backup` now. I think I need to mock `findFirst()` and will go ahead an mock `upsert()` while I'm at it.
* Now they're failing because `storagePathName` is undefined. It's defined in the result DTO.
* A `console.log()` in the use case isn't showing results (isn't running). Something is very wrong here.
* I stepped away for a few minutes and 30 seconds into it realized I've mocked `findFirst()` to return as if it found a `Backup`. I need to mock none found to test the data quality checks. And now those work as expected. I think the issue is the repo mapping to the domain trying to call `Backup.create()` with an `{}` value.
* The remaining tests are failing. I need to ensure I'm mocking a "not found" return when I expect the `Backup` to be not found.
* Those changes get the first three partial update idempotence tests working again.

Now I'm down to the new test failing because it's getting an `{}` result from `findFirst()`. I need a good raw `Backup` value to return. So, I'll define one.

Now I have the test failing because it `isErr()` is false. Because the `BackupRequest` `save()` is mocked to succeed. Change that to fail and now the test succeeds. I added an `expects()` for all `DatabaseError`s to ensure they're failing in the right part of the repo.

On to the last test. The same test, but `BackupRequest` `save()` succeeds and we expect an `isOk()` result.

All tests passing.

And I've been saying these two tests are part of partial update idempotence, but they're really duplicate request idempotence.

**COMMIT 6.2.2 - FEAT: Duplicate request idempotence for create backup replies**

I've decided to put the queue listener part in another notes file (6.3) because this file is already long and I expect the queue listener to be long too. I may split it into even more parts, depending on how it goes.

Question: Do I need another piece of duplicate request idempotence to ensure that, if a `Backup` exists for the request, it's `BackupReply`'s status is forced to "Succeed" regardless of what arrives?
* Means I get a failed message after a succeeded message.
* Because succeed writes the `Backup` and I don't let the create backup process delete (the record of) a `Backup`, I should ensure the `BackupRequest` is consistent.
* If I get a duplicate message with a failure after a succeed, I should log it and probably alert someone.

So, I need one more bit here (6.2.3) to ensure a fail after a succeed doesn't change the `BackupRequest`. That means changing status on line 113 of the use case only if the request isn't completed--so here's where something like the completed check I removed comes back.

Need a test for it first.
* The DTO should have a failed status.
* The `BackupRequest` could be `Sent`, `Succeeded` or `Failed`.
* A `Backup` should exist for the `BackupRequestId`.
In all cases, the `BackupRequest` saved should have `Succeeded` status.
How to detect this case?

The use case tries to get any existing `Backup` for the `BackupRequestId`.
* If it gets a error that isn't `NotFoundError`, it fails.
* If it gets a `NotFoundError`, it creates the `Backup` and sets a local variable to it.
* If it gets a `Backup`, it sets a local variable to the found `Backup`.

Then the use case sets the status of the `BackupRequest` based on the reply and saves it.

If the result type is `Succeeded`, it returns the `Backup`, otherwise it returns the `BackupRequest`.

Options:
* Accept I can't test `Succeeded` case (not desirable)
* Return both in a composite structure (`{ backup: Backup, backupRequest: BackupRequest }`)
* Always return `BackupRequest` (do I need the `Backup` in the controller/adapter)

I'll plan to return the `BackupRequest` only until proven incorrect.

So, time to write the test.

Actually, this is related to the last test (`Backup` exists, `BackupRequest` not complete, `BackupRequest` save succeeds).

So let's change the last test to `'when the Backup exists and the BackupRequest save succeeds, it returns Ok, does not call Backup save(), and BackupRequest is in Succeeded status'`). Which means adding an assertion that the result's value is in the right status.

Okay, the test is failing when the reply is failed. I'll get it working, then use a `test.each()` for the `BackupRequest` statuses. I'll also need to do something for the different reply statuses.

I removed `Backup` from the `Response` type, but VS Code doesn't seem to be recognizing that `isErr()` means it's an `Err`, so complains. The compiler has no problem with it. I've updated VS Code to the latest JS/TS Nightly from Microsoft, but still no joy. So, I'll add `as unknown as Response` to avoid anyone being confused by the VS Code flagging.

The change also broke one of the other tests (checked for a `Backup` return), so I changed the test to expect a `BackupRequest`.

This changes the conditions in the use case quite a bit. It shouldn't invalidate any tests, just involves checking `Backup` result in a different order.

Now `'when reply status is Failed, it calls BackupRequest save() but not Backup save()'` is failing because result is not `isOk()`. I'm going to remove the test because it will be covered by expanding the test I just wrote.

All passing.

**COMMIT: 6.2.3 - FEAT: Duplicate reply handling for BackupResult** 



