# Backup result queue message handler (adapter)

## Planning
I need an adapter that polls an Azure storage queue for messages and uses those messages to drive the `receive-create-backup-reply` use case. Other options include:
* Azure Service Bus
   * Positive: supports a long-polling subscriber that simplifies the polling cycle
   * Negative: cost; no local emulation (testing consequences); still requires a polling loop for kill switch
* Azure Event Hub
   * Negative: does not support message recovery if processor fails (when it's read, it's gone)
* Kafka, RabbitMQ, NATS, etc.; other cloud provider queue services
   * Negative: setup complexity; operation overhead
   * These options may be preferable if you already use them, but I don't, so will defer them until later (will make a good example of switching an adapter without breaking the use case)

### The adapter needs to
* Loop
   * Request a message from an storage queue
   * If a message is ready
      * Reset the delay to the minimum delay (option)
      * Call the message handler with the message
      * If the message handler succeeds, remove the message from the queue
      * If the message handler fails, 
         * If the message has been dequeued the maximum number of times (option)
            * Call the poison message handler with the message
            * Delete the message from the queue
         * Else do not remove the message from the queue
   * If a message is not ready
      * Increment the delay by the increment (option) up to the maximum delay (option)
   * Wait for the current delay

### Other features I want it to have
I want the delay increment to support the idea of an non-linear delay increment. For example:
   * Assume delay increment is 250 ms
   * First increment will be 250ms
   * Second increment will be 500ms
   * Third increment will be 1000ms
   * Etc. up to maximum

I want the queue listener to support the idea that the connection could fail and to recover the connection if needed, but that's a future enhancement. I want to get it working first.

`linebacker` will have other queue polling processes, so I want an `AzureQueueListenerAdapter` that I can configure
* A queue to which it should listen
* A poison message handler, which does something meaningful with messages that fail processing more than n times (n defined in options)
* A message handler, which attempts to process a message and returns either success or failure
* Options for delay configuration, number of failures to allow before treating a message as poison, etc.

I'll need some helper functions to connect to a queue so I don't need to pass a lot of configuration into the adapter proper.

I also want a kill switch function on the adapter so I can stop the listener loop, so a method to set a kill switch attribte on the adapter. The loop runs until the kill switch is true. I may add other features later that let me check if the loop is running so an application can wait and do a graceful shutdown, can start and stop the loop, etc.

### Azure queues high level view
I've done some work with Azure storage queues before, so here's the high level plan:
* Get Azure credentials
   * Application calls with credentials from environment or wherever
* Connect to a queue and get a queue client
   * Application calls with settings from environment (or wherever)
   * Gets credentials internally because the application doesn't need them
* Read a message from a queue and extract usable information from it
   * Data in the queue is in Base64 text form
* Delete (dequeue) a message from a queue
   * Read gets an id required to delete the message, so ensure read returns it
* Define interface for message handler and poison message handler
   * Different queues' handlers may require different parameters, think about how to generalize it
* Loop to read queue and call handlers
* Build an adapter that uses the code above to listen to a queue.

I have code that does much of the above in another repo. I plan to reuse and improve it here. For example, that code assumes credential and other information is in `process.env`. I want to pass an options object so the code doesn't depend on a specific environment setup.

For now, I'll put the code (except the adapter) in `src/lib/azure-queue`. Long term, I want to make it a library/package I can reuse, but I don't want to spend time now setting up and managing a monorepo or building an npm package.

## But wait...
The adapter doesn't poll the queue. The adapter is the message handler. The queue polling process is infrastructure like Fastify and Prisma.

Testing just got easier because now I don't need to mock the heck out of Azure's SDKs. I only need to simulate the queue listener calling the message handler.

Does the poller manage poison messages? Or does the message handler? For now, I won't put it in the message handler to keep the message handler simpler. Posion message handling is a feature to add later.

The message handler will:
* Receive a queue message string
* `JSON.parse()` the string into a message object (handle error)
* Convert the message object to a `CreateBackupReplyDTO` for the `receive-create-backup-reply` use case (handle errors)
* Execute the use case
* Respond with a success or failure so queue listener can dequeue (or not) the message

I still need the code that runs the queue listener, but that's future work. For now, I'll focus on the message handler, which acts as the adapter for the listener.

**COMMIT: 6.3.0 - DOCS: plan message handler features**

## Scaffold it
* In `src/backup-request-adapter`, define `IQueueMessageHandler`
* In `src/backup-request-adapter/impl`, define `CreateBackupReplyMessageHandler`
* Test: expect a response
* Write code to return a response

**COMMIT: 6.3.1 - FEAT: scaffold message handler for create backup replies**

## Handle message errors
* Test: when the message isn't JSON (replace test above)
* Test: when the message is missing a required attribute
* Code to pass tests

**COMMIT: 6.3.2 - FEAT: handle message errors**

## Handle valid messages
* Test: when the reply is successful
* Test: when the reply is failed
* Code to pass tests

**COMMIT: 6.3.3 - FEAT: handle valid messages**

## What else needs to happen?
