# Get logging right

## Plan

-  Figure out how to hook into logging so all logs go to the same place
-  Do I want to do all logging in controllers/adapters?
-  Or do I want a logging adapter so use cases can provide details that may get lost otherwise
   -  What kind of logging would I do from a use case that wouldn't bubble up to the controller or happen in an adapter?
   -  I'd like events to log that they're running, how to I get them a logger? (Declare outside the server and import?)
-  I'll focus on Fastify logging.

### What and where will I log?

-  At the controller level, I can probably log all the detail I need about requests
   -  Fastify provides `request.log`, which is a reference to the registered logger.
-  At the event handler level, which acts as a controller of sorts, executing a use case
   -  Requires a separate logger, so define and register with Fastify.

## Actions

-  Create a branch `pino-logging` and switch to it
   -  I may want to throw this away, so keep it out of `main` for now
-  `npm install pino`; `npm install --save-dev pino-pretty`
-  Create `src/common/infrastructure/logger.ts`; export a pino logger
-  Change `fastifyServer` to use the logger
-  Add logging to `CreateBackupRequestUseCase`
   -  `pino-pretty` doesn't allow custom level formatters, so exclude formatter in dev
   -  wrote a ternary to switch configuration in dev vs. non-dev
-  Add logging to the event handers for `BackupRequestCreated` and `BackupRequestAllowed` (in the subscribers)
-  Add logging to `src/common/domain/AggregateRoot` when an event is added
   -  Violates clean architecture, maybe, because logging isn't a aggregate concern, but the benefit gained is worth it and this will likely be the only violation
   -  I could add it to the event bus, but events are kept on the aggregate, so the bus doesn't know the event name
-  Spent a while adjusting the log output to look reasonable
-  Add a `fastify:uat` script in `package.json` to get the non-dev log appearance; confirm it also looks reasonable

After more adjusting, logging looks good. Some patterns...

-  Always log an object so data names are controlled
-  Always include `msg` because `pino-pretty` formats it special
-  Always include `msg` last for consistent placement when looking at un-pretty logs
-  Set up a `logContext` object with context identifying members that should be in every log message including
   -  `context` -- where is this log coming from?
   -  `backupRequestId` -- may need to pass to places it isn't needed (BackupJobServiceAdapter, for example)
   -  `eventName` -- for events handlers only
   -  `fastifyRequestId` -- in controllers only (it's part of Fastify's request object and only controllers see it)
-  Spread the `logContext` in the logged object first, then add any log specific data
   -  DTO
   -  Results
-  When necessary, reformat raw objects to be as flat as possible in the log (makes finding data easier)
-  Apply logging patterns, both how log output is set up and where to log, in the code in this branch

And with that, logging is looking pretty good.

**COMMIT: 7.3.1 - FEAT: add comprehensive logging**
