# Build the receive feature

I've laid out the whole plan here and will fill in details as I go. I reserve the right to move things around, but I wanted to think through a flow that should lead to tests naturally leading to code with little overlap or rework.

## Add receive function to AzureQueue

What does it do?

-  Get a queue client
   -  Needs queueName, useBase64, credentials
-  Receive one message
-  On error, return err
-  On ok, return ok with `ReceivedMessageItem[]`
   -  I'm willing to allow the poller to read several messages at once and send events for them because the event subscriber is responsible for deletes

How can it succeed? How can it fail?

-  Through the call to getQueueClient, it's basically the same as send
   -  Can I reuse that code so I don't need to retest it
   -  Message count parameter defaults to 1
-  `try` will get message items on success
   -  Important options: `numberOfMessages`, `timeout`, `visibilityTimeout` (seconds, may want >30 just in case)
   -  QueueReceiveMessageResponse { receivedMessageItems: ReceivedMessageItem[], errorCode, requestId, version }
   -  ReceivedMessageItem { **dequeueCount**, expiresOn, insertedOn, **messageId**, **messageText**, nextVisibleOn, **popReceipt** }
   -  `catch` is the same, I think
-  So, if I can pull all the setup into a function, I don't need to test it again, can focus on tests specific to receive

-  [x] Move setup into a function and confirm it still passes tests
   -  `initMethod(params)`; returns a `Result` with an object (destructure) or errors
   -  `sendMessage()` passes tests, so we're good

Tests and code

-  [x] queueClient throws -> SDKError
-  [x] queueClient rejects -> SDKError
-  [x] queueClient resolves < 300, Base64 -> ok, message matches
-  [x] queueClient resolves < 300, not Base64 -> ok, message matches
-  [x] queueClient resolves < 300, no messages -> ok, 0 messages

I don't think queueClient can resolve with status > 299. Tests show it throws/rejects. It can succeed with 0 messages.

**COMMIT: FEAT: (part) receive capability; add receive function to AzureQueue**

## Add delete function to AzureQueue

What does it do?

-  Get a queue client
   -  Needs queueName, credentials
-  delete message
   -  Needs messageId, popReceipt
-  On err, return err
-  On ok, return result
   -  Values I might care about: date, requestId, version, errorCode, response.status

`qc.deleteMessages()` doesn't return much because it has no real data payload. [MessageIdDeleteHeaders](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/javascript/api/@azure/storage-queue/messageiddeleteheaders?view=azure-node-latest), which isn't much more than I've listed above, plus `_response` and `parsedHeaders`.

Because all the responses include the (Azure) requestId in the main body, I removed `sendRequestId` and `receiveRequestId`. The adapter can translate it to the right prefix in the response.

How can it succeed? How can it fail?

Delete returns 204 when it deletes the message. I confirmed the SDK throws/rejects when delete fails (modified queue reader to try a few failures, discarded changes)

Tests and code

-  [x] queueClient throws -> SDKError
-  [x] queueClient rejects -> SDKError
-  [x] queueClient resolves < 300, Base64 -> ok

**COMMIT: FEAT: (part) receive capability; add delete function to AzureQueue**

## Use a single adapter for all intents

-  Reorganize around `AzureBackupInterfaceStoreAdapter` -- because it's about storing backups (vs. delete, restore)
-  ~~Add "intent" to constructor; only send if send intent~~
   -  Let's not complicate it; trust the team to use it correctly
-  Apply pattern to names in `AzureQueue` (related to sendMessage)
-  Rename adapter methods: send
   -  Consider passing data in an object to reduce errors
-  Adjust tests and code

After changes, everything is passing tests, including the event test.

Key lesson learned: When using the queue adapter, be sure the environment is set up.

-  This may be a reason to pass all the data to the adapter and use specific credential types (ClientCertificateCredential, ClientSecretCredential, ManagedIdentityCredential if on-Azure), though I'd still need to set up mock credential data and pass it for tests; having it in the constructor requirements might help remember it, though.

**COMMIT: REFACTOR: use a single adapter for send, receive,delete, isAlive (BackupInterfaceStoreAdapter)**

## Build status received message handler (for poller) and event

-  Define what each does
-  Test strategy; write any tests needed
   -  Call the message handler as the poller would and see it flow through
-  Write code

## Add receive function to adapter

-  Define receive function for adapter; check intent
-  Write stub receive
-  Message handler test will call receive and get a mock response from the SDK, so will be covered there
-  Add `mapToDomain` for queue data (response entity in backup request module)
   -  This adapter is for `BackupRequest` use only, so mapper here is okay

**COMMIT: FEAT: (part) receive capability; build status received message handler and event; add receive function to adapter**

## Build event subscriber

-  Define what it does
-  Test strategy
   -  Subscriber returns nothing, so will need to see flow through
-  Write code

## Add delete function to adapter

-  Define receive and delete functions for adapter
-  Write stub delete function for adapter
-  Tie delete tests to subscriber test (spyOn, expect to be called)
-  Add `mapToDomain` for queue data (response entity in backup request module)
   -  This adapter is for `BackupRequest` use only, so mapper here is okay

According to [Queue service error codes](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/storageservices/queue-service-error-codes), if the pop receipt is invalid, gets a 400

**COMMIT: FEAT: (done) receive capability; build event subscriber; add delete function to adapter**
